Mike Gehard
===========

1. Personal study
- Videos -
My 2nd son was born Nov, 2010. While waiting through the night at the
hospital, I started Lynda.com's Ruby Essentials course - and I have
never looked back. I dove head first into learning what it means to be
a web developer. I have watched at least 100 hours of Lynda videos to
become familiar with web development.
I am half way through the Rails Tutorial with Michael Hartl. Lesson 6,
but I'm having some questions and getting stuck with some basic issues
that I would love help with. I've tried to apply everything I've
learned so far by building my AMB3R site on Rails - still a work in
progress! amb3r.heroku.com/pages/ssp

- codeschool -
I've also been working through several courses including; Rails for
Zombies, HTML/CSS course, JQuery, TryRuby (I compelted non-codeschool
version though).
http://www.codeschool.com/users/DMWoodall

- Books -
I love to read! In the last year I have read; Learn to program,
Beginning Ruby, Beginning Rails, Rails 3 Tutorial, Pragmatic
Programmer, Passionate Programmer, Pragmatic Thinking and learning, XP
explained, The Rspec book (Just started), Textmate book, Learning
Ruby, Ruby Cookbook (Topical), The art and science of CSS, PragProgs -
HTML5 & CSS3, Build your own website the right way, Stealing Myspace,
Reality Check (Kawaski), Thank You Economy, Poke the Box, Venture
Deals.

3. community
- NWNM : Programming club -
8 years ago I started a music club to learn good music and found the
experience extremely informative. When I started coding, I did the
same thing by brining 8 of my newbie friends together by saying
(Humorously) "I've recently come to the conclusion the internet is
here to stay, so let's try to start learning it". It was very helpful
to collectively learn and hear one another's elementary questions
"What is HTML?" kind of stuff. It helped me greatly to be a
`leader/teacher' in such a small and ignorant group.

- hacknite -
I googled Ruby in Denver and found hacknite.com. I have gone 3 times
now and become good friends with several of the attendees.

- Coderetreat -
I attended Coderetreate yesterday. It was facinating and exhilarating.
I was not the worst in the room, but I saw how far I was from where I
want to be. I started following (Twitter) one of the guys I met
yesterday at coderetreat and he tweeted your apprenticeship.

4. Mentorship
- Rob
I've recently become friends with one of the guys I met at Hacknite.
He knows a lot of the Rails stack I want to. So I offered if we swap
knowleges. He helping me with programming,and I'm providing my
business/time mgmt/goal setting advice. We've met 3 times now and it's
been awesome! We set it for a 3 month trial - meeting every other
Saturday.
- Aaron
Aaron is my 21 year old cousin and I have been sharing with him
everything that I've been learning. He recently started Hartl's course
and has questions I have been helping him with. I also have been
teaching him what I know about CSS.
