2008 Prep thoughts
==================

This is the year we shed all reservation about life. This is the year
we awaken to the Power and ability that God has given all men,
especially me. I have been called to a higher purpose. One of great
influence and responsibility. I want to be faithful to the talents and
opportunities that I've been empowered with.

By knowing my roles, I know all that I am personally responsible for
and can move those vital pieces of my life forward. Anything new
should be weighed against my current roles to determine if it's
important, or simply a distraction.

                              Questions

 1. What do I want? To be cultured, broad, building equity, and fully
    engaged to experience my 31st year.
 2. What keeps me from possessing it now? Time Mgmt, lack of
    creativity, financial margin
 3. What is the wildest, most unconventional thing I could do this
    next year to live with more passion? What out of the box thinking
    could we do?
    Public Speak, Accounting Internship, Move to CO
 4. Who will hold me accountable to be my best self this next?
    Denise (Relational), David McDaniel (Responsibility), Boyd
    (Personal)
 5. The most significant way I will influence others is…
    Ask others good questions, begin to write a book
 6. What is the best way I can increase my financial Margin?
    Futureshirts, MBA/MS, Time MGMT
 7. Habits – What are the most purposeful daily habits you could
    develop/upgrade over the next 12 months? Reviewing Goals daily
 8. How can I set myself up to be able to work for a month from the
    cabin? work for a firm that enables flexibility, and virtual
    office
 9. Clutter – Identify 3 messes or clutter projects you’d
    like to clean up in the next 12 months? Clutter can be anything
    that is taking up room in my mind…for example we have 1000
    AU’s (Attention Units) and anything from a sick relative, to
    way ward child, to troublesome marriage, to bitterness can all
    take up mental and emotional capacity. We must un clutter our
    minds so that we can reach full potential.
10. Mail System
11. Money Mgmt
12. Marriage Planning

In reviewing 2007, what areas reveal the most progress? The least progress?

  * Most – personal development - Getting organized, Reading
    great books, Getting my workstation and workflow setup

  * Least - Finances & Friendships
    I didn't make much money this year. In fact we had lost my biggest
    account due to poor communication and teamwork.
    We did get to know aaron and ashley, but our church community is
    still anemic.

List 3-5 of your best achievements this past year

 1. Accounting and Economics!
 2. BYC invented into Prototype
 3. Getting time & Goal organized

Strengths and Successes – Identify what has worked well this
past year
5-9, 9-5, 5-9 schedule

Struggles and Stresses – What has not been working so well?

My mail system!

Financial management

Finding new biz...

What are the mediocre areas of my life?
