Application
===========

Hungry Academy
Engineering - Software Development | Washington, DC, United States

Do you have what it takes to be an amazing developer? It’s time
to find out.

Whether you’re already a programmer or want to become one,
we’re in search of people passionate about solving challenging
engineering problems. If you have the heart and mind we’ll teach
you the skills and techniques.

In this unique program you’ll spend five months entrenched in
the most intense, comprehensive, and challenging Ruby on Rails
training ever offered. You’ll spend one third of your time
learning in a classroom environment, one third working on team
projects, and one third giving back to the community through education
and open source contributions. We believe that the only way to become
a great developer is through practice, so you will be writing code all
day, every day.

Our deal for you:
We’ll pay you to come spend five months with us, learning the
ins and outs of Ruby on Rails while mixing in related technologies and
techniques — everything you need to be an excellent developer.
Survive the five month Academy and you’ll join our top notch
engineering team. (We are requiring an 18 month commitment
post-Academy.)
You will be immersed in a fun company culture, an incredible learning
atmosphere, while surrounded by the best development team on the
planet.
You will push the limits working on large scale applications for one
of the fastest growing companies in local commerce.
If you’re smart and passionate about solving complex problems,
we want you here! Are you hungry enough?

Application Instructions:

When you click through to the application page you’ll be asked
for your contact information, resume, and cover letter. Instead of a
standard cover letter, you will need to submit URLs for both parts 1
and 2 below:

Part 1 – Q&A

Step 1: Select five of the following eight questions.

1. Development is about dealing with constant frustration. Tell us about a
project you’ve worked on that involved high frustration and what
specific techniques you used to overcome the obstacles.

2. What’s the most influential book you’ve read in the past
two years? Why?

- thank you economy - changing my view of the web to the next
generation.
- Instead of talking to everyone and no one at the same time, Using
social media we can have a person 2 person ability.
His comments
- coming out of the customer service dark ages
- phone radio television web
-

My views
- Person device / devise person

3. What’s your favorite learning technique/environment/style? When
that’s not possible, what do you do?

- nickname in college was ABD.
- I was always rallying people around me to do something fun or
productive.
- I started 5 micro-clubs to help me learn
- I read books
- I love to learn and think
- I love to build and tweak.
- Primal leadership talks about how to re-invent yourself.

- mentorship - Working with Mike Gehard.
- books - Beginning ruby, rails tutorial, learn to program.
- teaching others - I started NWNM to teach others.
- I joined hacknite, the real nerds of Denver and I became one of the
new leaders.
- going to the session in january with Chad Fowler.

4. You can buy “Learn to Program” books at the bookstore. Why
bother with this program?

- I want to join LivingSocial
- programing is interactive
- The internet is here to stay and I want to speak it's language
without the use of a translator.
- the interactive nature of co-working together.
- being on the cutting edge of internet development.
- I'm turning down an MBA from Kellogg to be able join this.

5. What kinds of challenges really get you going? Why?

- a team endeavor where we see an audacious goal and have a need to
incorporate soft skills as well as hard lined efforts. (Goals,
discussion, strategy.)

6. Teams generally have managers and workers. Which role is more comfortable
for you and why?

- I got my start as a graphic designer, then worked as an art director
for 2.5 years.
- I preferred the art director, but i was a hands on director.
- The value of the web is worth learning at the most technical level.

7. What kind of people do you think will be in the program with you? Why?

8. What’s something you do better than most people? How does it help
you?

- Use both sides of my brain.
- While I was getting a Masters in Finance, I co-founded a company to
be responsible for sales & marketing. Front of the house and back of
the house activities. We've been in business 3 years and will do $750k
in sales this year.
- That didn't pay for itself so while I was in school I was offered a
position as Creative Director at a 15M company. Using the left side of
my brain.
- See a big picture and break it down to next steps.
- I call it ambidextrous thinking and something that has helped well
to be able to switch between colors and shapes to figures and
formulas.

Step 2: Create a video of your responses for the five questions. For
each response, tell us which question you’re answering, like
“Question 5: I love to…”. In the video we need to see
your face, hear your voice, and be able to understand your words.
Beyond that, production value is not important. Keep the entire video
under 8 minutes.

Step 3: Upload the video to YouTube as an “Unlisted
Video”
(http://support.google.com/youtube/bin/answer.py?hl=en&answer=181547)
and include the URL in your cover letter.

Part 2 – Extended Response

For Non-Developers
If you’re not a developer, pick a complex topic from your area
of expertise and explain it in 300 words or fewer. For example: the
“Law of Diminishing Marginal Returns” from Economics,
“How Cells Reproduce” from Biology, or “Why the
US has an Electoral College” from politics/history. Write your
essay using Markdown, post it as a public Gist
(https://gist.github.com/), and provide us the URL in your cover
letter.

- How to be an art director
- How to run a company

NOTE: If we are unable to access your URLs we will be unable to
consider your application. Double-check they work from a different
computer!
