Assignment 1: Mission Statement Worksheet
=========================================

Def: Success
To live a daily life of Happiness, Adventure, Influence, and Freedom.
Happiness in the form of awareness of the authority of God and Christ
in all.
Adventure to see every day as a gift and a new opportunity to walk
with God, love people, and work hard!
Influence to posses the wisdom of God and mentor, guide, and lead
others into the deeper life of Christ
Freedom to be able to travel, spend time with family, financial
freedom to be spontaneous

Def: Failure
Bondage and selfish living. Thinking of myself for myself.

What I can control
Attitude in: work, marriage, finances, hardships, victories, failures
Ability to choose to rest and remain in Christ.
My contribution to marriage.
Offering my total effort

What I can't control
Other people
Life
life's circumstances

20 positive Characteristics

 1. Hard worker
 2. Thinker
 3. Creative
 4. Reader
 5. Loving Husband
 6. Listener
 7. Leader
 8. Motivator
 9. Skilled
10. Driven
11. Motivated and ambitious
12. Balanced
13. Persevering
14. Optimistic
15. Flexible
16. Full of faith (at times!)
17. Responsible
18. Learner
19. teachable
20. Spiritual

20 past accomplishments

 1. Think fast
 2. Broadrun baseball
 3. Church Clothes launched
 4. dub design company
 5. Sports life
 6. kanakuk
 7. europe backpacking
 8. Costa rica honeymoon
 9. Hero Tour
10. New Zealand / Australia
11. Church Clothes in Tradeshows
12. Church Clothes in Retail Stores
13. Church clothes in kiosks
14. Church clothes music tour
15. Church clothes DVD
16. Accepted to DU! (prep work - GMAT!)
17. The books I've read
18. Learning Accounting
19. Learning Programming
20. Buying a house
21. Staying married!
22.

20 greatest blessings

 1. Danae
 2. Family
 3. Health
 4. American Citizenship
 5. Living in 2008
 6. Opportunities
 7. Education
 8. Friends
 9. Travel Experiences
10. Time with the Lord
11. Learning from Mike Wells
12.

20 blessings you expect to be greatful for 9 years from now

 1. Being Debt Free!
 2. Having 3 solid multi-million dollar businesses
 3. 3 children
 4. A home of our own
 5. Financial freedom to travel
 6. Author of a book
 7. Apart of a church body that is not attached to the 501c3
 8. Mentoring my Son of 9
 9. New friends I've met along the way
10. AMB3R has 300 stores
11. Binka Brew is in concept stage with it's first store

Ideal day from moment I wake up until I drift asleep.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

What three qualities would you most like to see associated with your
reputation?
1. Compassion
2. Sharp businessman & thinker
3. Clear Communicator

What three activities do you find most enjoyable?
1. Consulting
2. Leading
3. Project undertaking

What three activities are most important to you?
1. Quiet / personal time - study, goal setting, journal, prayer
2. Finding quality time with Danae - date night, hiking
3. Building a successful business
4. Proper eating and exercise

What three things would you like to change about your life if you had
no restrictions or limitations?
1. My financial status
2. The size of my business
3. The activities that Danae and I participate in - Travel, Dinner,
Recreational fun...

What six things do you want in life more than anything else? Be
limitless in your thinking.
1. Own a business portfolio worth $50 - 100 million by the time I am
49.
2. Governor by the time I'm 50. president of the US in 2040 (I'll be
63.)
3. Experience possession of a beach home in Del Mar, Mountain home in
Vail, a cottage in New Zealand, and another Beach home in a remote HI
island. Have offices in each of these places to facilitate easy
travel.
4. Maintain a biological clock of a late 20 something.
5. Be an Author of books on Faith, Christianity, Church, Business, and
American politics.
6. A rich and intimate marriage and family legacy.

Who are three people you admire and why?
1. Richard Branson - Hard core entrepreneur able to pull off some
great business opportunities.
2. Newt Gingrich - Love his thought process on renewing America. Solid
leader!
3. Mike Wells - For changing my perspective on this entire purpose of
earth and life. That I am here to discover through my experiences that
I am not God and these things that I posses are in fact attributes of
God and His glory.

Of the people you admire most, what one quality do they all have in
common?
The ability to clearly communicate what they mean or want.

what would you be willing to die for if you had to?
My Faith, Family, and Country.

Why do you go to work in the morning?
Provide for my family
Build a business
To have an environment where Christ may be revealed.

What are your four most important roles in life?
1. Husband
2. Business Builder
3. Student of Life
4. Ambassador for Christ

What qualities would you like to be known for in each of these roles?

  * Husband
    Gentle, Caring, Loving, Listener, Provider, Strong, Meek,
    Adventerous, Creative, Reliable, Integrity

  * Business Builder
    Resourceful, Successful, Profitable, Dynamic, Inspiring, Magnetic,
    Effective

  * Student of Life
    Cultured, Broad, Deep, Intellectual, Inventive, Motivating,
    healthy

  * Ambassador For Christ
    Servant, Humble, Giving, Loving, totally surrendered to Christ

What evidence would prove you have those qualities?
1. Husband - Danae saying so
2. Business Builder - One business built with another on the way
3. Student of Life - Living a balanced life, able to enjoy
conversations with most anyone
4. Ambassador for Christ - At peace with God and myself, fruit of the
Spirit

What three metaphors accurately describe your outlook?

  * Life is a gift
    - We have also mysteriously been given the opportunity to do
    something with our lives. We have one go around and we each have
    the ability to choose what we're going to do with it. While it
    pains my heart to know that not everyone is given this
    opportunity, I have been given some of the best cards and I must
    play what I have to the best of my ability.
    White, american, tall, good looking, male, athletic, smart,
    energetic, married, father to be, strong family support, healthy,
    grad student to be, living in the information age...
    These are gifts that I did not choose. I consider this alone to
    put me in a talent pool of the highest level... Lord may You be
    glorified, and may I be a faithful steward of these freedoms and
    privileges.

  * Life is a cycle of seasons
    - For it is but a breath and we are here to birth our spiritual
    selves in Christ. Part of that requires experiences of all kinds
    to awakens and expose our true selves - the Spirit and the flesh -
    That we may be formed in Christ.

  * Life is a marathon
    The tortoise won the race. Life is made up of moments and we can
    either be there for them, or only think of other moments and
    consider those `living'. Enjoy the season and day for what it
    brings. There will be other times for vacations and large bank
    accounts.

What would you like to see written on your tombstone?
David M. Woodall. 1977 - 2087.
Experienced the fullness of Christ.

If you could write your own eulogy, what would you want it to say?
Dave had an inspiring relationship with Jesus Christ. He walked with
God and had the mysterious way of leading and following God.
While Dave had a fortune, he knew it was only his to experience and
not own.
