Job description
===============

Position Summary:

Direct Ouray’s graphic art development. Establish specific goals
and directions for the creative art staff and insure timely and
effective completion of stated goals. Responsible for the daily
management of the embellishment art process, to include Embroidery Art
and Screen-Print Art. This position will be responsible for all
embellishment art requirements.

How many lines a year? How many products per line?

Responsibilities: (including, but not limited to):

Lead the creation of Ouray’s art direction and vision, to
include:
Matching art style to garment style, Analytically matching art to
customer segments and sub-segments Introducing new and different art
directions and color direction for art
Understanding competitive landscape and Ouray’s customers

What resources to do this?

Create and implement embellishment art process to effectively control
the workflow of the Creative Art department.

Who do I work with?

Oversee the management and scheduling of embellished art needs,
requests and sampling. Track all embellished art needs and requests to
create monthly reports regarding the demands placed on this division.

What software? Can I Use basecamp?

Act as the main internal contact concerning all embellishment
communication, both internally and externally. Monitor and maintain
lead-time for all new embellished art requests. Communicate current
lead-times to sales force and internal personnel.
Organize and facilitate Embellished Art meetings. Responsible for
managing the timeline for the entire embellishment graphic art
development process.

Lead the creation and implementation of stock embellished graphic art
outline for each line release. Work with the Director of Design and
the VP of Sales and Marketing regarding the need for new custom art
and special art needs.

Responsible for developing and overseeing the most efficient and
effective presentation of art in art books and online via the art
database.

Responsible for all aspects of collateral art development and
leadership including but not limited to catalogs, sales rep
collateral, brochures, signage, hang tags, website, mailings, emails
and announcements.

Travel to various destinations outlined below to gain a global
perspective of our markets and the art needs of each:

Meet with key customers and sales representatives to gain an
understanding of their special art needs so that Ouray may address
those needs effectively.

Travel to new territories to gain a perspective of the type of art
being sold in those territories and determine new and different ways
to address those markets.

Travel to Trade Shows to identify new art directions and communicate
this information to the Creative Art staff.

Management of the Embellishment Artists
Responsible for hiring and training new creative artists.
Responsible for creating a network of regional contractor artists.
Communicate company and divisional goals and expectations to
employees.
Responsible for performance reviews and employee discipline (if
required).
Responsible for the overall success of the embellishment graphic art
process.

Leadership

Responsibilities as a Manager of Ouray Sportswear include promoting
and acting within the values and expectations Ouray Sportswear has set
forth for all employees and diligently working towards and supporting
the goals Ouray Sportswear has outlined for itself with your
assistance.

Requirements:
√ 4-year Bachelors degree in a related field (Graphic Art,
Business, Management) or equivalent work experience.
√ 4-years of graphic development management experience.
Excellent organizational skills. Knowledge of embellishment processes.
Customer Service experience.
√ Understanding of Embroidery and Screen Print process.
√ Experience with Apparel and Headwear products is REQUIRED.

√ Knowledge of all levels of the retail landscape, distribution
and competitors.

√ Demonstrate high level of competency in the art/product
creation process-ability to interpret the market and identify future
trends.

√ Excellent oral and written communications skills.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Main issues:
1. Need to maintain school at least part time
2. I can work with AMB3R in evening...
