July 2008
=========

7/1
We are in the last month. Baby is due in 3 weeks! Wow I don't know how
prepared we are but the Lord does.
I am consoled by Psalm 125
They that trust in the LORD shall be as mount ZION, which cannot be
removed, but abideth forever. As the mountains are round about
Jerusalem, so the LORD is round about his people from henceforth even
for ever. v 1&2

I don't really know how we'll make it, but I know I can trust the LORD
with the Journey. The World may shout, but it cannot be moved unless
the LORD says so.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

7/2
You O Lord I love to know. You are drawing me to You as You are Living
in me. You are uniting us and I accept Your invitation.
Unless You build our home, work, ministry, marriage - It will not
happen. Father, unto You we submit our lives.

The "white out" that I experienced last month is still in effect. I
find that I am not standing on pursuits of identity any longer. Even
the lure of Richard Branson has lost it's luster. I need not
businesses to own. I need the Lord.
I find this ambition of the small business ownership is almost
opposite for me than what most people find when they say Corporate
world. People assume that corporate is boring, mindless, and
un-entrepreneurial. I find a desire growing in me to meet with those
people as the mission field.
We hung out with the Longs for the first time last night and Geoff had
asked how much I thought about the mission field. I told him the story
about the conversation I had with God on the fairy boat in Venice when
I was more than willing to make preparations for the `jungle', when I
had felt the Spirit say He called me into the Business world.

It's interesting to think about that and how over the last 8 years I
had tried to make my `business' work. How I assumed that business
therefore translated into Richard Branson.
The irony in my mind is that all these years I've been working by
myself!
I want to believe that over the last 8 years the Lord has faithfully
changed my perspective and heart. I'm coming to Grad School now with
open heart and a desire to invest into people in the business world.

My heart is coming to recognize that in the midst of downturn and
trials, God is still faithful. That it's all going to be alright and I
will be required only to respond to the Spirit inside, nothing more.

Yesterday, July 4, I had a chance to sit and think through my life. I
feel like I came up with a 50 year plan. Similar to my goals; But
along this path:
30 - 50 : business world
50 - 60 : Practice Law
60 - 80 : Public office

All three of those sound exciting. Only the Lord knows where, when,
how, and if. I just planned my ways to watch the Lord direct the
steps.
-

7/9

We had a great birthday weekend. We got a cabin up in estes park for 2
nights. The trip was also a baby-moon to prepare for our baby coming
into this world. Hindsight we should have taken out some time to pray
and talk about it.

I have to be careful not to overanaylyze things. Sometimes I wonder if
I applied myself as best I could in applying for Grad school. It's
true I had real estate development on the mind and DU really provided
that great opportunity. But as I've had some time to think it through,
I feel like in life's limited existence, it's wise to continue on the
path and align with what I love to do.
In some ways it may appear that a 31 year old going back to school is
`behind'. I however believe I am ahead of schedule to already be
making a `start over' at 31. Many of my class mates will be entering
because they didn't know what else to do, or have a central idea of
what they want to work toward. I think that's great for them. I,
however, find that I wanted to live it broad. I wanted to experience
life in all ways and forms other than my profession. I have done lots
of travel, well read, invested heavily with my wife, and also started
several businesses. I find that I am more alive because of the last 13
years of my life.
I also used to say `there is plenty of time in life to make money.' I
don't know if that's wise or foolish, but I feel I lived it. I pursued
what I loved to do. Nashville, to me, demonstrated a willingness to
sacrifice for the greater good. I never cared for Nashville, and I am
so thankful to be done with it!

I don't know what school will bring and that's what I'm excited about.
I think it's great that we're building AMB3R but I am tired of working
alone. My heart wants to engage with people around projects. I want
them to see the Light and Life of Christ in me. I have had enough
business on my own for a while. I am ready for a 9 - 5.

"For I Long to see you, that I may impart unto you some spiritual
gift, to the end ye may be established" Rom 1:11
I have this heart unto my co-workers. I find that I am more
comfortable when we have something to work toward. It's not that I
don't want to act like the work we're doing is not-important. Or a way
of sabotaging it because I show them it's not important. I want to
demonstrate that Christ is alive and well even "here".
-
7/14

Life is such an interesting thing. That it's a journey of growth and
maturity. Recognizing our place in this world. Dreaming dreams and
living through them. Some dreams are real and others dissipate.
The Greater truth is God is alive and well. This Journey of Discover
of who I am in the grand scheme is an interesting one. So many
competing philosophies and belief systems. I have to believe that the
most important relationship of my existence, God, speaks to me
internally. He is leading me and guiding me and working all things for
the good.

I cannot say what's going on outside of what my life is. I am not God
and I don't know the situations beyond a limited few.

I feel a sense of privilege and responsibility as an American. I have
freedom like few have experienced on earth. I want neither to squander
or be unfaithful. My prayer and desire is to be found faithful with
the life the Lord gave.

This vision I see for my life is one of holding a position of
authority in the work world and using my influence and resources unto
the Glory of God. I find that my professional compass is pointing
toward a large brand or apparel related retailer.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

7/22

Baby is due in 2 days! It really feels like Christmas the week before.
It's such a fun time and feeling. Jeanie is out and Mom, Dad, and Mike
arrive tomorrow.

I'm just waiting and praying that the baby is healthy and that my
spirit can remain rested in His. He is the Vine and giver of Life and
we are His sheep and followers. I am so blessed for this life and my
prayer is that I would be found faithful and full of faith in this
journey.

On a lighter note, but still news for my experience. I ready a book
called "new dress for success" and it really impacted me. While it
speaks toward the corporate culture, I hadn't planned on getting any
new school clothes until reading this book. I ended up donating about
80% of my wardrobe to goodwill. It was stuff I had been wearing 8 - 12
years! So it was time to let that go.
So last night, we went out and bought about $400 worth of clothes. The
great thing is that everything was on sale! So i got 3 shirts, 2
pants, a jacket, and a sweater.
I want to use these clothes as an opporunity to present my best foot
forward with school and the people I meet.
