Note to family update
=====================

Hello Family!

"Phew" and "Yawn"! That about wraps up what's been going on the last 3
weeks or so.

Just an update to let you know all is well at the Denver Branch.

We have been loving our newborn OJDW, Adjusting to his life.
Bekah has asked me to share some of my feelings. I suppose I'll try.

One of the first things to say is that having a baby is indescribable.
The vocabularay that I would use, like "amazing" simply doesn't cut it
since it's the same descriptions I would use for a good pasta dish.
"This lasagna is amazing and so is fatherhood" just doesn't seem to
feel right since they are really not on the same level.

So that leaves me to say that for you who have kids know the feeling,
and those of you who don't, just wait and love it.

There was an internal earthquake when Oscar was born. It was one where
I could feel the foundation of my life up to that point starting to
shift and move around. My priorities were in the process of changing,
but I wasn't sure how or where at that moment. Only that I was going
to need to take time to reevaluate everything. I think about a
discussion Brian Grandstaff and I had in NC on the hill between Grama
and Lisa's house when we were skateboarding and I was just shocked he
hadn't had time to learn to skateboard... I mean, who was this guy???

Danae is an amazing (like baby level, not pasta) mother. She has an
instinct that kicked in and I don't worry about anything with the baby
because she already has it under control. She has said on several
accounts how thankful she is to have Esther go before he and pave the
way! - Thanks Esther for the fart medicine!

This whole robbery nuisance has turned into a huge blessing. The
amount of love and support we received from you, our family was
totally unexpected and only filled this time with more love and
thankfulness to the blessing of you our family.

I start School in about 2 weeks. I am so excited to start that new
chapter.

The job that brought me to CO started to fall apart soon after I moved
here. So long story short, I started a new tshirt company. I didn't
really plan to, I don't know that I had much of a choice.
www.AMB3R.com - the name "Amber" is really an acronym for "AMBassador
Royal" - or Royal Ambassador. `hint hint' / `poke poke'
The Lord has been really faithful to help us get started. We've picked
up a few new clients including doing some tees for Nooma (rob bell)
and Willow Creek's youth dept.
So on top of Moving transition, Baby Transition, School Prep, I've
been trying to get this business established before I start my 14
credit hours.

Other than that, we are loving our small group of friends we've gotten
to know.

I'm reading a great book `The magic of thinking BIG'.

Curious, I wonder if we would start to use Facebook groups more -
Jessica set it up and that would be cool if notes likes these could be
on there?

Love you!
