NWNM | Progress Journal
=======================

Chapter 1 | Chapter 2 | Ruby Methods

12/20

I heard back from Kellogg, Full time that I was denied. It's crazy
that I spent 4 years and 10 attempts trying to acquire an MBA. That
season is setting and I'm turning my attention to NWNM.

I am looking forward to this feeling of post-car accident to be over.

Mike Gehard
Working on exercise 5
Learning about % substitutions operator

RubyLearning.org
formatting for temperature

Rails Tutorial
I upgraded to Ruby 1.9.2 and I messed something up...

AMB3R.com
Left off making Fireworks mockups...

Hungry Academy
A LivingSocial code training that I'm trying to apply to.

12/11

I have been immersing myself in programming clubs and events. I went
to code retreat, startup denver, ruby on beers, and galvanize
incubator.
The result of attending code retreat I was able to learn of Mike
Gehard who is a SR programmer at Living Social. He is starting a
mentorship to learn Rails, that I'm going to start Jan 1.

I'm still meeting with Rob Carpenter. He's been a great help with my
development and emotional confidence to proceed through programming.
We are going to renew our relationship for at least another 3 months.

I'm reading a lot about a the whole spectrum;
- principals of web design
- Adobe Fireworks - to improve the mockups and design process
- Venture Deals (Feld) - to learn the VC term sheets
- Reality Check (Kawasaki) - to learn the VC culture
- Stealing myspace - feels like an internet history book.
- Anything you want (Sivers) - This was a very validating book from a
guy who sold his business for $22M. (CD Baby) It was really
encouraging to know that I can be a great entrepreneur and learn the
things in life that are technical.

I can't believe how far I've been able to come in the last 12 months,
and even more so in the last 2 months. I am optimistic that I will be
able to find myself generating revenues online in the oncoming years.

11/21
Wells turns One tomorrow. While waiting for Wells to be born, I
started watching the Ruby tutorials. I'm pretty excited for the amount
of knowledge about the web I have discovered over the past year.

In other random news, Harvard Business School said "no."... I have
been processing it and seeking the Lord, knowing that I've spent over
3 years pursing that program. I'm reminded of the other experiences in
my life when I pursued what I thought were the right things - Only to
see the Lord have something else, better for me. I trust Him.

current focus for web
CSS
I want to improve my CSS and be completely comfortable with layout
online. It has become even more apparent how vital sound CSS is. I am
trying to master this to be able to communicate clearly.

Rails
Static Pages for AMB3R.com

Word Press
Learning this platform for a blog.

Github
Trying to improve my use of this vital support tool

Textmate
Trying to learn the shortcuts to be even faster and more effecient.

10/14
(RIP Mike Wells 1952 - 2011)

Working Michael Hartl tutorial I've installed Ruby, RVM, Heroku, and a
few other pages.
I've setup a very simple dynamic page - (Need to post officially).

I'm going to start meeting with a local ruby mentor, Robert Carpenter.
Hopefully he and I will swap expertise - he knows all about the Rails
stack. We are going to try to build a Rails app for my time management
spreadsheet.

10/6
(RIP Steve Jobs 1955 - 2011)

I have since quit Ouray and working full time at AMB3R now. I'm
excited to invest the time into the company and be the interim CTO for
the next 8 months or so. I find out in 2 months if and where I have
been accepted to business school.

My goals for the next 8 - 10 months are;
1. Know Ruby
2. Deploy a rails app
3. Structure AMB3R to be my employment during B-school.

9/20

The Lord has been whispering to me "Psalm 73" several mornings. I
found it odd, repetitive, and wondered if I was crazy. But the Lord
knows what I need. As I enter into this new journey of knowledge and
understanding - there are a lot of wealthy people in this arena. Many
are my age, and younger. It has made me feel at times that I've wasted
so much of my life focusing on other skills and industries. But that
is not the case and the Lord graciously reminded me of that through
His Word.

"Thou Shalt guide me with Thy counsel, and afterward receive me to
glory."

There is so much to learn and so many people who are benefiting from
the web. But the web is not eternity and neither has this world
changed. I started my career - not in a professional circle but trying
to, essentially reinvent commerce. I learned a holistic view - I
developed a taste for a broad interests in order to know what I need
to do to succeed.

I like what I'm learning and I don't want to listen to either of these
lies;
- That I am too old
- All the good ideas are taken
- There's too much to learn so give up

For in reality;
- I am at the perfect age to start
- There are unlimited big ideas, and I have some already
- I'm learning at a greater speed than I realize.

9/15
Able to install Gems to get a Rails first app launched and posted to
Github!

Also, reviewing cucumber - watching an overview of how it works.

9/14

Started Ruby on Rails! In the process of installing all the necessary
software from a different approach than what Lynda taught me.

I'm humbled by the amount of work that goes into programming
computers. It is overwhelming and simply incredible the amount of time
and coding it takes to make something work.

So far I've installed Github, Curl,RVM (and RubyGems from RVM),
Updated Ruby itself (Now on version 1.9.2)... and I haven't even
gotten to installing rails yet!

This really feels like a jungle adventure - I don't know what will
possibly trip me up. If/when I get errors, I find it a huge dead end.
Thankfully though, things have seemed to work themselves out so far...

9/13

I couldn't resist the urge to begin working on Rails. I am in the
process of setting up the environment. Hopefully, there won't be to
many hurdles preventing me from starting the Hartl tutorial.

Ruby is a fascinating language. I am spending time on the Lynda
essential training ruby tutorial. The flow of pieces can be
overwhelming at times - the syntax, control structures, code blocks,
methods, classes, and more. I am still optimistic that these kind of
lessons will benefit me in one way or another. I will either continue
to be a middle manager - like at Ouray, but I'll have additional
skills to use. Or, I'll be able to know how to build these web apps
and hire someone else to code them.

My objective is clear; To be able to lead the development of a web
application. Able to code when needed, but more importantly, able to
guide and lead the project from concept to completion, knowing when,
where, and how the project is being accomplished.

9/10

My vision is to be able to deploy SAAS products.
To be able to know from start to finish, concept to completion.

I don't want to learn a language for language sake - but to know how
to build, for myself, or others a freestanding web application. These
apps will be small at first - simple little games or calculators. But
over time and practice, I will be able to develop a robust system that
will intrigue and entail many more programmers, designers, and
customer service reps to manage the amount of online business.

The path includes:
languages: html, css, js/jq/ajax, ruby, rails, supporting items for
efficiencies(redis, cucumber, github), recurly, heroku

9/8

Trying to build my `first' ruby script, called "firstTime"
Trying to post the file onto github, but having trouble setting up
github's username info.
terminal keeps saying `-bash: git: command not found'

Ruby Methods

Collect
Gathers a value of each execution of the blog into a new array.

Split(`here')
Splits the string wherever you want it to.

include?(`here')
returns true/false for item you're searching for.

Reject
filters out all the elements for which the block is true.

inspect
Returns the string like IRB

Chomp
cuts off and `\n' characters. (They make a string different)

9/4

What people don't realize is that I have heavenly capacity to handle a
wide range of topics. I doubt the glory the Lord has empowered me with
often times. The truth is, I do not have trouble learning Design,
Management, Finance, Accounting, Programming, Sales, Marketing, and
more. In fact, the more I learn, the more excited I become about these
topics.

What I have to be reminded of is that this world is not my home. I am
not racing against tech crunch, techstars, Mark Zuckerburg, Jason
Fried, Richard Branson, Mitt Romney, or anyone. I am on this earth for
the Lord's purposes. I am learning and going along as He leads me.

My ultimate desire is for the revelation of Christ in me. Not to
become the SAAS master. I enjoy these things, but they are not my
identity or purpose in life. Lord, let me simply be found faithful.

9/3/11

3 supporting items to learn;
SASS, Cucumber, Redis

----------------------------------------------------------------------

I ebb and flow with my feelings about progress. I just picked up the
book Everyday Scripting with Ruby which seems to be right on track
with my comfort level and learning style.

One of my other learning ambitions is that if I'm not wired to be a
leader, but to remain middle-managment, then I want to be the best
middle manager, using tools like scripting and programming to increase
my efficiency and capabilities.

I have a month left before applications are due. Then, 3 months until
I hear back. If I get accepted, it would be about 8 months before we
look to move again. I'm thinking that this season is one to learn
these languages and be prepared to use them as I need.

As a reward to myself for completing the applications, I'll start a
Rails project. Part of me would hope I could learn it enough, and a
CMS tool that would enable me to focus solely in the Ruby universe,
and not need to work WordPress or PHP.

There is a lot to learn still about HTML, CSS, JS, JQ and more.

  Chapter 2 | Back to Top

Journal | Top| HTML

8/24

I heard back yesterday that Ouray wants me to pursue sales positions.
They are letting me work 4, 10 hour days. I will have my Fridays to
work at AMB3R and/or NWNM. I am working on JQuery, and finding it
surprisingly easy to comprehend.

I've broken my learning areas into - Languages, Platforms, and
Projects.
Languages
HTML, CSS, JS/JQ, Ruby, PHP, SQL, Liquid

Platforms (That I'm currently pursuing)
WordPress, Rails, Shopify

Projects (List of projects I think I can work toward)
WordPress (Sales reps, Danae)
Shopify Sites (Osblanks, Flipface, PolyZoo)
Rails (Time mgmt, presentation queue)

Also, once I discover the languages, I recognize that I will begin to
read blogs about the various topics. I don't feel like learning coding
is keeping me from anything. In fact, I feel like not knowing these
topics is limiting. I think the only emotional reservations are those
that have me consider and question why I would be learning this stuff
at `34' instead of `24' like so many other people did. I have to
simply say, "That is not my story, but the Lord has me on His path and
I want to walk in His way." also... "Thankfully, this is not my home
and this knowledge is ultimately unto the revelation of Christ, which
can be learned throughout my life!"

----------------------------------------------------------------------

8/20

I officially launched my first website from concept to `completion' I
launched a basic HTML5 site onto godaddy. My first dave.woodalls.me.

It's crazy what I've been able to learn over the last 9 months.
Starting from the ground up - HTML5, CSS3, starting some JavaScript,
Ruby, and more. I've watched several hours of Lynda and it's paid off
significantly.

The world is getting online and I want to be able to plug into it as
well.
I have questions, but I have more confidence!

----------------------------------------------------------------------

8/17

Just watched WordPress 3: Creating and Editing Custom Themes.
Surprisingly simple now that I have a decent grasp of HTML & CSS. Per
tutorial, I installed MAMP and Sequel Pro without any issues at Office
computer. However, my prior work with MySQL for Rails has created some
bugs on my home computer. I'm having to do more digging to figure out
how to fix that. It led me to MySQL Essential Training which I
probably need to watch since it's going to be a pretty useful aspect
of development.

Putting together a word press site will give me a new goal to work
toward using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. Since WP is built in PHP, I'm
going to plan to start reviewing PHP with MySQL Essential Training.
I'm pleasantly surprised that the learning curve for new languages is
not that difficult. It's roughly the same material, just different
syntax.

My plan is to learn a CMS - Word Press, and it's language (PHP), then
continue to move toward Rails with Code Schools Rails Tutorials.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

8/16

Just completed the JavaScript Essentials course. Good overview of how
the code works.
The next step is to dive into JQuery (On Code School), which is a
JavaScript library that has much of the most popular JavaScript
already written.

My goals for JavaScript.
1. Be able to have tasteful transition of content, like a slideshow.
2. Be able to show alerts on new pages, header info ("just an fyi")
3. create shadowboxes to display info like size charts.
4. validate information, like minimum quantity of t-shirts to achieve
discount.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

7/30

                              JavaScript

Key pieces:
elements
events
Objects - document, window
Functions

document.getElementByID("someID");
most important way to get info
It is case sensitive

document.getElementByTagName("a");
var myListItems = *document.getElementByTagName("li");

----------------------------------------------------------------------

7/21

  V: To learn how to market and sell on the internet.

O: Utilize Google SEO/Analytics to read and improve sales and traffice
performance
G: Launch Flipface Campaign
I: Get FF budget
I: Setup analytics
I: Secure Licenes for FF

O: Launch an Ecommerce store
G: Launch OSblanks.com
I: Confirm pricing
I: Upload Content
I: Determine inventory System

G: Launch AMB3R FB/TP shopify
I: Build old project to ensure proper information
I: Review admin w/ JP/AG

G: Launch a personal homepage to practice content, image, design, and
code
I: determine domain name
I: Finalize site content

4/26
Started reading Learning Ruby I think I'd recommend this book after
Learn to program. I'm focusing on regular expressions, and after
reading about the topics, I'm getting the syntax. I'm starting to use
terminal to practice the expressions, arrays, and other simple items
to make sure I understand basics.

4/20
What is the difference between attr_accessor & def Initialize method?
What does initialize method `do'?

HTML Notes

                          Programming School

4/18

Phase I Intro to programming

 1. Summary of the environment
 2. Know the various Languages to a necessary level
 3. Tools of the trade
 4. Code potential
 5. programming eco-system
 6. Project schedule
 7. ways to profit
 8. References and resources
 9. Idea journal
10. List of Mentors

Phase II Junior Programmer

 1. Build a brochure site
 2. Build a small ruby app
 3. Build a ROR app

Phase III Project Manager

 1. Be able to publish programming on my resume
 2. Able to build web applications through a team

Phase IV The next Jason Fried!

 1. Develop a SAAS application company

HTML Notes

                              HTML Notes

3/11

No major issues currently for HTML at the moment.
Learned how to make these fancy section links...

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Journal | top |

                           Progress Journal

3/11

I'm realizing that in order to learn computer programming, you have to
be prepared to play. You have to tinker in a way that doesn't have
`productivity' as the end result. I have to learn the universe before
I can contribute to it. What the syntax, context, and collective parts
can accomplish. I have to be prepared to make mistakes and do it the
long way. The path to web app master is through being a technician
first. I will give technician 2 years before I need to produce.

The reason I'm not stopping with something simple like Virb is because
I want to do more than build brochure sites. I want to produce
environments that create visibility and value.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

3/9

Getting comfortable with the syntax of CSS (Classes and ID's)
I'm getting the hang of positioning from absolute, but I need to spend
time developing an understanding of how relative spacing works.

I also find that spending a few days away from a topic (Ruby) allows
my brain to digest and think about what I'm learning.

I think the way I'm going in a cyclical pattern of HTML, CSS, Ruby,
Web Principals is a helpful approach.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

3/5

                                 CSS3

I've taken HTML5 as far as I want to at this moment so I'm turning my
attention to CSS3. looks really promising about fonts, navigation,
content placement, and more.

I started reading CSS3 for Web Designers and watching the Lynda Video
on the topic

----------------------------------------------------------------------

3/4

                            Brochure sites

The components of a website
Build a plan
Build a page outline
Collect the copy
Build a style guide
Compile images
compile HTML with `div' tags named as outline suggests
use div id's to create the css components

All items built in CSS
colors
style
navigation buttons
text style
boarders

Questions
How do I organize my file library before I set it up to FTP?
Confirm linking CSS to html
what parts of HTML 4 do I still need to learn?
- I've got doc, head,body,header,tables,images, links,br, links...

Development agenda
- dubipod.com html
- dubipod.com css
- dubipod.com hosted
- danae layout
- danae design
- danae plan
- danae html
- danae css
- danae blog
- danae hosting

----------------------------------------------------------------------

2/21/11

H1. HTML Tables

Spent some time trying to become fully comfortable with HTML Tables.

Tables are more than just for `spreadsheets' they are used for laying
out a page where you would have two or three columns of information.
The framework is built in HTML, but the styling (colors, fonts, etc.)
are still built in CSS.

There are 4 pieces to a table:

1. Table tag
This raps the entire table.
Caption is optional but that's how you give the table a title
2. Table Row
Each line is wrapped as a row.
3. Table header
This is the bold part, the title of each of the columns and it will be
the first row of the table if you want `titles'
4. Table Data
This is cell for the info.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

2/16/11

                                 Ruby

Notes from studying this Ruby Lynda.com Outline

Ruby Object types
Meaning all the objects are created from these components?

Control structures
How to build the movement

Code Blocks
What do they offer?

Methods
Existing or Created actions to call on your Object

Classes
Classes are the backbone of ruby. They are the framework to organize
objects

Modules
Don't know what these are yet....

Working with files
Don't know how to do this yet

Optimizing graphics

Learning to use Adobe Illustrator to optimize images for web.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

2/13/11
Thoughts
Trying to wrap my mind around the scope of this skill set. Learning
that the term for what I'm interested in is Web Applications helps me
focus on what I'm trying to accomplish.

Today's Focus

Roadmap
Spent some time reading the roadmap article and reviewing each of the
pieces.

Ruby
Reading "beginning ruby" and trying to grasp the core language basics
of Object, Class, Method, and Variable.

Misc
Spent some time trying to understand what nanoc, rack, and sinatra do.

Rack
Rack is middleware. It is a liaison that will talk to the server of a
website, the "HTTP". I don't know what the HTTP is but it sounds like
Rack will help simplify some of it.

Questions
What should

Timeline
I'm going to try to figure out programming until I completeBusiness
School (June 2013.) If I don't get it by then, I will concede that
this is not my thing...

----------------------------------------------------------------------

2/8/11

                                 Ruby

Variables
Definition Placeholders of reference to objects
(Examples: x = 10, x is the variable)

They make programming more flexible.

You can name variables any way except:
single unit (no spaces)
must start with a letter or an underscore
must contain only letters, numbers, or underscores and are case
sensitive.

Valid names:
x, y2, x, this_is_atest

Invalid names:
7x, this is a test

  Chapter 1 | Back to Top
