October 2008
============

10/2
Trying to keep up with it all. The combination of work school home and
GMAT prep and relational management has me booked solid. I was
thinking yesterday how I can see where a solid grasp in the bible as a
believer helps me in these times when I don't have time to read it.
Meaning, I have learned that I am not upsetting God when I don't read
it.

I have a conference call today with NAMB about their summer orders for
2009. It's pretty unreal that this is on the table. I didn't ask for
this order, yet it's for potentially 75,500 tees! I don't even know
where we're going to get the money to cover the blanks.

I really am enjoying this schedule though. It's full and busy but I
find I have no reason to stop it, but to rest from time to time. I got
up at 4am yesterday.

I am still pursing Harvard and the 700 GMAT score...

I'm tired.
-

10/9
Reading Letters to Philip and the idea of getting in order to give.
One of my regular thoughts about finances has been to create a system
(the green book) to be able to manage our money properly.

As I have put Danae my first ministry, I'm curious if it is wise and
true to entrust
Danae with our tithe and monies. Is she ready to manage our home
finances? I want her to flourish and grow and help manage our home
completely.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

10/12

This schedule is no doubt a full one. My prayer is that the Lord will
show up in a huge way. I am trying not to be nervous about our
finances. It seems that we don't have the funds to make it to March.
Lord willing our house will sell in March which will give us about
$10,000. I'm not sure what will happen in an economy like this though.

AMB3R is growing, but I still can't seem to see if we're able to
support Jeremy and I financially. I am hoping to get our stuff figured
out soon with Jill our CPA.

I feel bad for Danae because she has feelings that I am not attracted
to her. I am just so consumed right now with this MBA challenge
because I feel it's huge. I'm not thinking of anything fun or
non-study including - snowboarding, beer, or sex...

----------------------------------------------------------------------

10/13

"Distributing to the necessity of saints; given to hospitality" Rom
12:13

I wonder what my motives, goals, and objectives would be if I were not
in a capitalistic society. I find that I'm working hard to get to a
position to care for my family in a way that also has ability to
influence others in my work life.
-

10/28

You probably can tell how busy my life is by the amount of journaling
I do. I have been waking at 4:30am 3 or 4 days a week to work out and
study. Life is full and I enjoy it.

My belief that I can get into a top school wavers back and forth
often. Sometimes I feel really confident and other days I'm not so
sure. It's the latter that make waking early difficult.

This feels like the biggest challenge I've ever encountered. Where I'm
not sure of my chances and the competition is fierce.

My Prayer is for the Lord to empower me with His true wisdom,
comprehension, clarity, concentration, retention, and ability to all
out kick butt on this GMAT. I'm showing up here in the mornings, but I
just don't know that I'm making the kind of significant progress
necessary.

I spent about 16 hours on it this weekend. Lord willing I will be able
to see some improvement!
