Test 3
======

Analysis of variance

Knowing when an analysis of variance is appropriate

what kind of data –
what kind of problem – continuos variable with 3 or more treatments
purpose – to see if there is evidence between the treatments

*null hyp – all treatments are the same
*altenative hyp – significan evidance they are different
under alternative every treatment does not have to be the same. some
could be same.

ANOVA gives table – True

ANOVA has a P value
p < 1% reject the null / accept the alternative
p > 10% accept null

after getting table and p value > 10%,
- accepting null hypotheses
- The means could all be the same
- do nothing more, it’s over.

after getting table and p value > 10%,
- accepting null hypotheses
- The means could all be the same
- doesn’t mean we’ve proved all means / variables are the same.

after getting table and p value < 1%,
- reject null hypotheses because all the same
- review timeline table and draw line over similar variables –
pairwise comparisons (aka – tukey pairwise)

looking at conf intervals – giving each pairwise – ‘does this CI
contain zero?" if YES, draw a line. if not, don’t draw a line.

after getting table and p value > 10%,
- accepting null hypotheses
- if we did pairwise comparisons, we would find all CI would contain
zero.

Ability to perform basic experimental designs

Ability to use a software package to run an analysis of variance

Appropriate use of pairwise comparisons
-

                          1 way probability
         Check: “Analysis of a proportion” on categrical data

Taking one set of data

number of success is your point estimate 560/3000 = 18.7%
there will be a confidence interval and standard error (both on
minitab)
margin of error is based on standard error.

                          2 way probability
           step 1 – find difference b/n pm and pa (pm – pa)
          step 2 – run basic stat > shoots out pvale and CI.

binanry categorical variables (ex. surgical operations)
input morning vs afternoon of surgical success rate
Frequencey is number of it happens
CI – of two probabilities

calculate CI b/n 2 probabilties to see if they contain ZERO. if they
do there is no evidence of difference.

PM – 442/550 = 78% success

PA – 388/560 = 71% success

null hyp – PM equal PA
null alt – PM not equal PA

----------------------------------------------------------------------

                      Categorical data analysis

Ability to perform inferences on population proportions

Goodness of fit tests

cc eample
N trials with x successes
ratio – x success / N trials gives us a point estimate of probability.
TRUE
telling how accurate is – the standard error for point estimate.
margin of errors are based on standard estimates.

minitab will give us a CI for probability – true

----------------------------------------------------------------------

                          1 way cont. table

example – certain number of accidents
1 categorical variable with 3 or more levels.
data is frequencies

variable is ‘day of week’
category – mon, tue, wed.

ex]
hyp null – probability they they are all equal.
null alternative – they are not equal

null – says these are the probabilities
alternative says

name of test to determine plausibility that prob are true – chi
squared (“Kai”)
Need more info on what is Chi squared

         Chi squared test aka – goodness of fit test, pearson

use with 1 or 2 way contingency
to do hypothesis test is called chi squared test aka pearson goodness
of fit test.
tells us weather data is consistent with probablties we specified.
what kind of p value that data is consistent – >10%
p vaule <1 means that the probability is not consistent with our
probabilities.

                       2 way contingency table

step 1 – chi test to test for independence. gives a pvalue
step 2 – if pvalue <1% 1 it’s not independent, it’s complicated and
reject null.
pvalue > 10% it’s independent and it’s the ‘simple’ test.

P value >10% accepting the null and you accept the null

comparing two unknown probabilities. ex.] success for morning vs
afternoon of surgeries.
calculate a confidence interval for difference of the two probabilties
p1 – p2 (or am – pm)
looking at CI to see if the p value contain zero.

if contains zero they could be the same.
if doesn’t contain zero

null hyp that they are the same
alt hyp that they are not the same

2 catigorical variables and each is simultansity classified by 2
variables.
which drug did you have and what was your reaction.

hyp null – they are independent
mean – they don’t depend on each other.
prob of 1 categrical variable – doesn’t depened on which level
“does matter which drug you take”

hyp alternative – they are not independent
“does matter which drug you take”

simple explanation for data is NULL
more complicated explanation is Alternative

to do hypothesis test is called chi squared test aka pearson goodness
of fit test.
