The break pt. 1
===============

I’ve been really trying to figure out how I’m going to ultimately
break from Futura. I had imagined that it would be after school, where
I would work part time through school.

Based on David McDaniels council he had said I should let it out so
that it’s all above the table. So I’ve been thinking what is the best
approach in this situation.

I finally had a conversation with Jon yesterday. We talked about all
things of the move, and how it was coming along with Denver. I had
confessed that the compensation break of sole commission with a floor
was not really working for us. I told him I need to make more and that
I was even considering taking another Job.

I also explained how Scott seems to really validate me that I have
indeed been working for 3 years in a sick, unstructured, organization.
It really did help because I would continually question if I was crazy
here seeing things that were illogical or unproductive. We seemed to
never really gain ground.

When it all went down, we discussed and finally went with this option
of 1099, hired contract employee. It was actually Jon’s idea. This is
the structure that jade and rick are under. When I said I was open to
that, he then said that I needed to get an LLC going ASAP.
If there was a month though that I would or should go 1099, it would
be this month.

NAMB is paying their large invoices which are going to total somewhere
to the tune of 150,000; which translates for me something like $12,000
in commission. In addition to my other projects, this brings it to a
total of aprox $15,000 in one single pay check. If I were to take that
as an employee, it would take roughly 30% for taxes.

So this seems to be the ideal situation to start the break from an
employee. Then the thought is that Jeremy could approach me and Futura
with his applique supplier connection.

Ultimately, This feels like the kind of situation that I’ve been
dreaming about. A way that I get setup with such a fertile situation
that “anyone” would do this. When I tell the story in my book how the
whole thing pans out, it will be a great one.
