Venture Capital
===============

Venture Capital

Vault.com

Funding foresight
While investment banks shift money from one party to another, venture
capital firms (“VCs”) are dedicated to investing their own capital in
new companies in return for a hefty share of stock and future profits.
These venture capitalists are more than financiers; they provide
guidance, services and support to the fledgling business, and expect
to be treated as partners. While not all VC activities are centered on
new companies, and investors can be found seeking relationships with
established firms, the majority of the industry concentrates on
bringing new ideas to market. The “father of venture capital,” Georges
Doriot, co-founded the first modern VC firm – American Research and
Development – in 1946, but VC did not become really popular until the
1970s. Today, the industry is popular among business school students –
the intellectual stimulation and potential for tremendous earnings
attracts the cream of the crop of MBA programs across the country.

A brief history of venture capital

Historically, private companies in the U.S. were funded by
individuals, families, or tightly knit groups of people. In the 1960s,
there were a few wealthy individuals in California who took to
investing their money in early stage technology companies. These
people were “angels.” Returns on investments were excellent. Angels
began to systematically search for and invest in companies. In 1971,
three of these successful angels raised additional funds from other
rich individuals and institutions and placed the money in the first
“venture capital funds.”

A crash and a rebirth

Venture capital firms suffered a temporary downturn in 1974, when the
stock market crashed and investors became wary of this new kind of
investment fund. In 1975, only one venture capital fund raised money,
but that was the same year software developer Tandem Computers took $1
million from a venture capital firm. Eventually, Tandem grew into a
$2.6 billion firm and was bought by Compaq in 1997. Returns were
tremendous for the few firms in the business in the late 1970s. The
U.S. government lent a helping hand in the form of legislation through
this period. In 1978, for example, capital gains taxes were reduced,
so anyone making profits from investing in venture capital firms, or
any venture capital firms making profits from investing in private
companies, paid lower Federal taxes. That was the first big year for
venture capital. The industry raised approximately $750 million in
1978.

The era of the IPO

If venture capital hit its stride in the late 1970s, it started
sprinting in the 1990s. For instance, venture capital firms backed 260
IPOs in 1996. VCs that took their portfolio companies public in the
fevered markets of the late 1990s earned very high returns, averaging
35 percent per year. Some top investments produced results of 100
percent compounded annual growth through this period. By 1997, the
rapidly growing venture capital industry reached a 10-year high,
raising approximately $10 billion in new capital, compared with
approximately $1.5 billion per year in 1991.

Internet money

Venture capital continued to boom into the early 21st century. Their
appetites whetted by the biotech mania of the early 1990s, venture
capitalists vigorously embraced the horde of fledgling Internet
companies (dotcoms) launched in the latter half of that decade. It was
good for the Internet – and good for the VC firms. In 1998, delighted
venture capitalists sunk $16 billion into companies nationwide – $4.55
billion into Silicon Valley alone. Many venture capital firms saw
their investments in dotcoms explode into a rainbow of profit. Think
of the foresight of Sequoia Capital, which in 1995 sunk $2 million
into Yahoo!, now a $1.9 billion company, or Benchmark Capital, which
had the good fortune of putting money into online auctioneer eBay, now
worth $1.4 billion. At a June 1999 conference sponsored by Red
Herring, Adam Dell moaned: “We are bombarded by so many deals and so
much information, it’s difficult to be strategic as opposed to simply
reactive.”

The party’s over

The frenzy of dotcom investment drove the expansion of the Internet,
but it also created a massive bubble of overvalued stocks and
over-inflated VC expectations. Many felt the “everybody wins”
environment was too good to last, and it was. By September 2000, the
dotcom bubble had burst; disenchanted with promised earnings that
never materialized, investors pulled out of the Internet fad, leaving
many companies devastated. Stocks plummeted, dotcom became a term of
mild derision, and venture capitalists were left with egg on their
collective face. Despite this market readjustment, and the generally
bearish environment of the early 21st century, venture capital
continues to be an attractive field. VCs are more cautious, but they
know that the next big thing is still out there somewhere.

The stages of venture capital investment

Venture capital firms invest in over what could be considered five
different stages of a company’s growth. Note that some of these terms
overlap. Seed is an investment of between $1,000 and $500,000 made
when a company is just a few people and/or an idea. Start-up is an
investment of between $50,000 and $1 million in private companies that
are completing product development and beginning initial marketing.
First stage (or early stage) denotes an investment of between $500,000
and $15 million made when a company has completed its product but has
no, or little, revenues. Second stage (or later stage) is an
investment of between $2 million and $15 million when a firm has
product and revenues and has often already taken money from other
institutional investors. Third stage (or mezzanine) investments range
from $2 million to $20 million, often invested in a profitable company
for a major expansion generally leading to an IPO in three to eighteen
months.

Take it to the bridge

Bridge financing is a term often applied to speedy financing of a
company that is in trouble and needs some more time to get to a more
substantial round of financing. But sometimes a “bridge financing” is
a bridge to an IPO. In this case, “bridge” refers to an investment of
between $2 million and $20 million made only three to twelve months
before the company goes public. The company is typically profitable at
this stage. The reasons a company would want a round of financing so
near to the time it raises lots of inexpensive money from the public
are to improve its balance sheet, attract a prestigious investor to
its board (which will help increase its value in the public markets)
or to hedge its bets in case it fails in its attempt to sell its
equity to the public.

Supporting portfolio companies

VCs aren’t just about the money. Firms regard themselves as partners
in the entrepreneurial process. Thus, providing support to portfolio
companies becomes an essential part of an associate’s job. Concretely,
this means: doing research and strategic planning; attending Board of
Directors meetings; helping locate and screen potential additions to a
company’s management team; convincing new recruits that they should
work with your portfolio company; supporting the management team;
negotiating and working with I-bankers and acquirers of the company;
raising more money from other equity sources; negotiating with banks
for debt financing; reporting to the rest of your VC firm on changes,
problems and triumphs; and helping acquire other companies.
