The 7 dispensations
===================

At the time of this writing we are getting ready to close on the
George W. Bush Presidential term. Only time will tell how this man
impacted our country. (I’ll save the tangents for blogs)
As we enter into a new administration there are going to be changes.
Things that Bush had done that this new president will cease.
Additionally there will be new laws for taxes or punishment that were
once legal, but now illegal.
We as citizens have to accept or face the consequences.
We can’t say “But I liked George Better!” I want to continue to live
as the Bush Administration showed us. I was comfortable, etc…
Why can’t we do that? Because times have changed.
So it is with our christian experience on earth. While God hasn’t
changed, his dealings with people have. In all, there are 7 different
administrations that are going to take place over the course of the
existence of earth.

I feel it’s necessary just to give you an brief introduction to those
7 for 3 reasons
1. so that you know what’s going on in the bigger picture
2. So that you know which administration you’re in now
3. so that you stop making life difficult by living in old
administrations.

The ‘christian’ term for this study is called dispensationalism. If
you have heard negative things about it, I am under the belief that
this is such a powerful concept that people have taken it to the
extreme and gotten side tracked from the bigger issue.
They find it becomes their life message to tell eveyone about
dispensation that it turns sour.
You need to see it for what it is then recognize how to follow the
‘orders’ given for our administration, or dispensation.

God does not change but His dealings with people have. If you don’t
believe me, just think of the easy example that we no longer sacrifice
animals to please God.
While that is an extreme case, there are many more examples of how He
has changed His dealings.
Being aware of this is the study of dispensations. Another way to
explain is to think of them like administrations. Consider the Clinton
and Bush administrations. There were laws and rules under the Clinton
Presidency that made certain things leagal and illegal. When Bush came
into office, he changed a few of those rules.
What may have been permissible with Clinton was now illegal under
Bush’s leadership.

So it is with how God has dealt with mankind. He has changed his
dealings with people over time, however there is a common thread in
all His changes. Each period where man was tested and the end result
of that period was marked in Man’s failure to honor God in that way.

There are 7 major dispensations. 5 of which have already past. We are
living in the 6th. While it’s always beneficial to learn from the
past, the focus on this book is going to deal with the gameplan of the
current dispensation. It’s good to know how other people related to
God, but it will give you a good overview to see how and where our
dispensation aligns with all of time.

1. Innocence
2. Conscience
3. Authority
4. Promise
5. Law
6. Grace
7. Millennium
