June 2009
=========

6/2
I'm still studying for the GMAT. I wonder if it's going to pay off.
It's strange how both sides of beliefs have reasons not to commit to
something. Either that there's no point, or that God will take care of
it all. I don't disagree that He is in control and has all the power
to change the course, but I also think we don't really know enough to
say convincingly that we should aim for something.

This goal to attend Harvard has me waking up early instead of sleeping
in. Danae is on board with it and I often ask myself, what else am I
going to do with the rest of my life.

The Lord has answered my prayers of knowing to number my days. I can't
get all this stuff done fast enough. But yet I love this season and
this time. (I'm experiencing a little piece of heaven this morning
with the window open and an consistent rain.)

"And they that know Thy name will put their trust in thee: for Thou,
Lord, has not forsaken them that seek thee." Psalm 9:10

I wrote in my bible's margin:
3/28/01 In Boca, what am I going to do in life?

I love thinking of the span of time from then until now. What has
occurred over the last 8 years.

Thank you Father for being a great and might God. I cannot help but
acknowledge that my life is blessed beyond compare. In all it's
challenges, may I consider the poor. Lord, I surrender these pursuits
of business, establishment, and education. My prayer is to have the
kind of margin to initiate the establishment of programs and systems
to spread the gospel of Christ.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

6/8
Up at 2:15 AM to start the week!

I was trying to explain to Danae yesterday that the things on my mind
about life.
My current Spiritual thoughts are related to:

  * What's going on with organized church.
    I'm leary of the big publishers setting the agenda for my
    spiritual "Growth". I feel like their objective is to show me
    something else that I need in life. Instead of drawing me to a
    place where I realize, "I need nothing but Him."
  * Considering the poor
    My hear is loosening for those who have not and are not. I cannot
    deny the natural gifts and talents that the Lord has blessed me
    with. I don't want them to distract or prevent me from

Life is going really fast right now. In the Summer, we got all kinds
of crazy tee shirt projects going on. We are about to hire Hayes as a
part time helper for the summer for AMB3R. It's pretty cool to think
that we'd have this small company.

Lord, thank you for all you do and are. You are King, and glory unto
you.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

6/9

Hayes is starting today as an AMB3R employee part time. I feel like I
should be even more excited being that this company has some momentum.
I hold it loosely and thank the Lord for the blessings and mercies of
holding it all together.

My heart is really tender to the less fortunate right now. I don't
know what to do but I want to do it all. I want to save and protect
the wounded and weak. I want to mentor and train the fatherless. I
want to rid the world of wickedness and poverty. I just don't know
where to start. I'm paralyzed by so many options. Lord... what is this
and what would you have me to do. I emailed the ARC thrift store about
helping out there.

My heart is also stirring about the role of these big american
churches today. I feel like they have this big boards and happy
messages, but behind them is the same stuff of people's pride and
power grabbing for identity and fame.

Lord, may I exchange my anxious and angry heart for Your life, love,
and peace. This world will never be right and You love us more than I
ever could.
