June 2008
=========

6/3
We've been here 3 months now. Last month definitely flew by. Pete and
Katie came out one weekend. Aaron another.
We've started to get settled nicely and things are going by.
I got paid today from my largest sales month ever. My total commission
was $13,200!
I'm thanking the Lord for providing to be able to get us out of
several of the debts we're in.
I've pretty much resolved that this is exactly where God wants us with
our finances for this season. No matter how hard I try to save and get
some traction, there is something new that pops up.
I know that I do not hold it or possess it, and that unless the Lord
builds our financial foundation and house, we are not going to be.

I'm curious what that Lord's `game plan' for our lives looks like at
this current season. If He has a particular higher purpose for today.
If this time in our lives is another step on the journey.
But Lord, what about this day? For it was made in it's own unique
beauty and purpose. My time is to short to be living without purpose.
-
6/6

I'm at this initial stage of AMB3R where, we're self employed and that
we have to do everything. We are working on probably 15 different
orders right now in various stages. It's a lot of work!
My hope is that I will be able to do as much work, but in less time to
be able to still do it during school this Fall.

I want to get out from Futura completely. I don't know how much I can
balance of them...

I'm going to work with Jimmy Wall today to see part of what he does.
I think there's a part of me that still would like to do development.

"The Lord is good, a strong hold in the day of trouble; and He knoweth
them that trust in Him." Nahum 1:7.
-
6/11

I woke up this morning thinking about trusting God. That the Lord is
working this all and knows what He's doing. He knows the progression
of life, how short our time is, and what our needs are. He knows how
He created me and what He's developing in me.

Life is indeed a mystery. How it works and what we're to do in the
mean time. Father, is there a church we may attend to meet some
believers?

In LA I had a conversation with a guy named Jeff who had the life
kicked out of him the last few years. He's tired and searching for
God. I loved speaking Life into him. Christ's life. I would love to
continue to do that and connect with people who need and want to hear.

Father, let me see that I am not the center. I am apart of Your great
plan and You have made me for a place that I belong. Let me not be so
foolish to judge what I do not know.

Sometimes I feel like the glory and power of God which is revealed in
and through me is like the video game Zelda. Where Link goes on a
journey as a boy and throughout the game he acquires skills, traits,
and insight that make him a man.
My hope is that Christ is building and growing in me and preparing my
heart for glory. For soon I will stand before God in all of His glory.
I pray I may be prepared sooner than that for it.

But then again, I should ask; "What do I want it for? Why do I want
more power & Influence?" I feel like my first objective is to get my
inner circle of responsibility secured. To provide a home for Danae to
feel safe and secure and to nest and do her natural desires.
From there, I want to meet up with like minded people and engage and
serve. I want to see people come to know Christ. I want to see their
eyes opened to the revelation of Christ in them.

Only time will tell what Church Clothes did to shape me. I know that I
am working to prepare myself for the next chapter of life by going
back to School. It's really amazing how time works. For it is
initially appears like it's a long time away, then all of the sudden,
it's flown by.

I have to confess though that my ideas for my life are very short
sighted and immature. For in reality the things I'm dreaming of I
already get to experience on a regular basis. A great meal, time to
think, a great book, a goal to pursue.
I think what I am just asking for is a 2 week vacation to relax. :)
I love this season we're in. I love living in Denver. I love trying to
build a business. I love the opportunity to go to school. I love that
we're going to have a baby!
I want to See Danae find her rest and love in Christ.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

6/12
I want to worship God. Is this the same as recognizing I am near to
Him? Is this accepting that my life is worship, not anything other
than living in the light and resting in the power of the true Vine?

The concept of knowing God more seems to almost be unique to every
person. As in He chooses to reveal Himself in different ways to
different people.
If I were to try to describe my experience, I would say that when I am
most connected with God, the world has a brighter outlook. The colors
of life seem to shine brighter. I am at peace and charged up to do big
things. I wonder if that's my place in life...

----------------------------------------------------------------------

6/16

Danae and I have still yet to settle on a name for our son. I thought
we had with Oscar John David. Grama Woodall sent us a note about 2
months ago telling us she would prefer we didn't name our son Oscar.
It shook Danae enough that we haven't been able to settle on that.

The strange thing is that while I want to name him OJD, I feel like
I'm not totally settled on it now either. As if I could say I don't
have a peace about it. Few men are able to be named after their
heritage as such so it means a lot to me. However, I feel like I could
let it go since it's not worth more conflict than what's already
happened.

I had a conversation with Aaron Peterson a few days ago about helping
out with AMB3R. We need someone who can help us with Production
Management, the logistics of the deal. I can't help but admit I've
been a little bothered by one of Aaron's initial questions when I
approached him with it was "what's in it for me".
While I think this is a worthwhile question, it bothered me that
before he wanted to understand the situation or what he would be
doing, he wanted us to offer him something. Learning about a business,
I'm realizing that it's like a stream of water. You have to have the
eye to see (or the Lord throwing in you in!) to the opportunity.
I have no idea what's going on with AMB3R and how it may be
profitable, but we have enough work going on that with the proper team
we could do some damage.
I'm wondering if there is someone local who I could train and pay
hourly to help me out initially. I like my neighbor Brett. I'm going
to see if he would be available and interested.

"Salvation is far from the wicked; for they seek not Thy statutes."
Psalm 119:155
I sometimes wonder when I'll know that I have found or obtained the
salvation of walking in the way of the LORD. I mean in the way of
seeing wise and righteous principles benefit my life. They feel so
subtle and I have been alone for so long now that I can sometimes
forget how they influence. My hope is in the Lord. My hope is in the
truth that I will soon reap what I have sown. My prayer is that I have
sown into righteousness, life, prosperity, influence, and adventure.

There is no such thing as too blessed. For I am indeed blessed beyond
comprehension. This life is one of discovery what the LORD has done in
and around me. I ask for Him to continue to reveal these truths. I
want to know Him and make Him known.
Lord, Thank you for watching our back and going before us. Thank you
for leading and guiding through the scenic route.
"Let me soul live, and it shall praise Thee;" Psalm 119:175.
- I am looking forward to the day that I may live and work with other
people. I have worked alone for so long now I can't wait for the day
of assistants, co-workers, and others who I may influence unto Christ.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

6/18

I'm about 3 weeks from my 31st birthday. Not as monumental as my 30th,
but I've been having some thoughts about it.
I really feel like I experienced a certain awakening when I turned 30.
(Maybe that was the gift from the Lord...) A new sense of purpose and
that up to this point I was just being formed and prepared for life.
When I draw a timeline of my first 30 years, or if I were to summarize
them, I would probably see waves and waywardness. I would have to say
that my 20's were a blur of youthful adventure and soul searching.
Not that I've arrived or anything, but much has happened this first
year of my 30's and I'm looking forward to how this decade of
`initiation' will unfold.

I am awakened to the gift of life. The gift of health. And the
incredible opportunities to live in this great country. I am inspired
to do great things outside of what is comfortable.

The other thoughts I've had recently are about the Word and Prayer.
That those two sacred activities are really leading us to the Source.
That they in of themselves are not the answer, but avenues to
connecting with the Creator.
It's a way of seeing through the activity to who I'm connecting with.
That I can open my heart through word and prayer. My question is what
other avenues can we connect in? Nature and relationships come to
mind. What else?

----------------------------------------------------------------------

6/20

I've been thinking about my career and next steps. I'm not really sure
what I want to do. I feel like I want to be told what to do for a
while. Instructed and apprenticed by older and wiser men. All my
experience has been by trial and error.

How profitable is a life plan? I feel like I'm taking it a step at a
time and school is that first step. I don't know what's going to
happen after that. I don't know if AMB3R turns into something or if I
head off to another industry.

I have to remind myself that I'm focusing on the tasks at hand for the
the next 2 - 3 years.

"The Lord shall presere thee from all evil: he shall preserve thy
soul." Psalm 121:7

Often times I need to be detached from the World and it's system. I
can so easily forget and become intoxicated by the race and it's
deceptive objectives. The truth is Christ is king and ruler. He has
revealed that I need not think of the future because He did not create
me to see it. I can remain in Him through this journey and wait and
hope as He moves us to a higher place.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

6/21
My parents celebrating 33 years of marriage today. I'm proud of the
model they have demonstrated of service and generosity. Just their
presnece and care gave me so much of my stability and definitely
shaped me who I am. I consider them part of the blessing of God that I
feel responsible to invest back into life. If that were me, I would be
59. 29 more years... what's going to happen over the next 29 years...
Only God knows. Currently I think that I would be gearing up for the
Presidency.

Which leads me into the next segment. Yesterday I feel like I was
secretly poisoned spiritually. Fears and uncertainties about the
future, my role, my place, my job, what I would become, how I would
rise above the challenges of finaces and purpose all really hit me
yesterday. I was really defeated. It's interesting because yesterday I
also started outlining another book concept I'm calling `to walk in
newness of life'.
I hate when I feel depressed. I hate when the dark storm clouds come
over me. The future becomes grim and my thoughts of optimism are shot.

I knew those things were so far reaching future. I'm praying for
wisdom on which direction should I go with a degree selection with DU.
There are a few options and I want to begin to move forward and know
what I'm doing.

If I accept who I am and moved into the next stage of it, what could
my focus be?
- Marketing, supply chain, management, strategy, accounting, finance,
real estate...

Marketing / Supply chain / Strategy
Accounting / Finance
Real estate

I'm wondering if I should use the momentum and experience I have from
Apparel and the `street smarts' i have here to build on instead of
start over...
A focus on finance and/or real estate development puts me back at the
beginning.
Where as supply chain marketing, customer experience, and strategy is
really where I have spent the last few years. Imagine taking those
concepts to the next level. I feel like watching Jimmy wall, he's
doing similar to what I'm doing just in a different relm.
Imagine using my marketing and supply chain groups to take on AMB3R
projects where a real estate course really isn't like that..
marketing has to do with sales and that whole side of the coin.

So what about this route;
MBA - Finance "Corporate finance" track specifically
MS - Marketing/Supply Chain mgmt. "Integrated marketing stratgey"
track

1. keeps me continuing on the executive track
2. Keeps me in the rhelm of what I know - I'm focusing instead of
expanding. I'm improving and building on what i know
3. I can use these experiences to build AMB3R
4. I didn't like the construction site when I was there, what makes me
think I would like it now?
5. I can use this route to go for consulting, apparel, and product
related big companies.

I can always partner with Jimmy and/or AAron when I have excess cash
to invest into real estate deals.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

6/25

We are 4 weeks away from our due date. So much has transgressed since
Danae became pregnant.
I thank God that He has continued to work and develop us. He truly has
a place and plan for us. He is the One who made us. He is the One who
is intentional and knows what we need unto the forming of Christ in
us. I do not take it lightly. I want to remain in Him.

I've continued to think about this marketing/finance approach. I have
spent the last 5 - 6 years working on my own. I want to work with
people and reach out to them in the marketplace. I wonder if a larger
organization would enable for more exposure as well better practice if
I am to head toward the Presidency.

God is in control...
-
6/27 - Breast feeding, latching, and the white out

We went to the breast feeding class last night. I had an interesting
experience learning how the baby needs to latch on properly for
benefit of the mother and baby.
My mind then wandered to the idea of the Vine and the Branch. I have
found that another analogy that I like is the idea that I have a
spiritual plug and Christ is the outlet. He is the source of the power
and I need to plug in regularly.
I'm going to write more about this in my book...

Another interesting thing happened to me as I was going to the car
after the class. I had a moment alone and it's hard to explain when
the mind has a conversation w/ God in a split second; But that's what
seemed to happen. I had an agreement with God that I would be okay
with totally abandoning my childish wishes, dreams, and aspirations to
serve Danae and baby(s) the rest of my life. While this seems silly, I
had to pray outloud `for the record' that went something like "Lord, I
am okay with totally loosing myself unto Service of my family and
You... I just ask that You then take care of all our needs."
Why it sounded silly was how obvious that was. The other wild thing is
it felt like things clicked for that moment. That the teaching and
Spirit inside me has been preparing me for this moment of losing my
life.
This is a modern analogy, but it felt like the way that one clears a
plasma TV with the `white out' feature. How the screen can build up
images over time and a white out cleans them off.
That's what it felt like in this brief interaction with God. That He
cleared my brain and soul to permit a losing of my life... for what of
my ambitions are really worth pursuing?
-
6/30
The Trotters and the Walls put together a baby shower for us last
night. We had about 10 couples come over for it. It was really a great
time. I am so thankful for these people's friendship out here. It is a
bond we haven't had yet being married with a group of people. This
feels closer than a family with all of these couples. Hopefully Danae
feels the same and will let us stay out here longer!
- Trotters, Walls, Kobergs, Longs, Lumpkins, Mike and ashley, Brad and
Emily, Richard and Andrea, Danny and Laura... It was a great time.

Hayes made this great salsa last night and we said we should all go
into business together.
We said we would call it "Hayes! Woodall you like some wall'sa Salsa,
Long?"
===
Reading psalm 123 I see how David compares some basic things he sees
with his relationship with the Lord. A "AS" - "SO" relationship. I
feel so much that the Lord has designed this world like that. In so
many ways we can see His true nature and character in the small
things. As the Father feeds the birds, So He cares for us more. As the
Sun rises every day, So is the Faithfulness of the LORD to arrive.

===
I had a good conversation with David McDaniel on Friday about my
`focusing' and he seemed to agree that I'm more of the idea guy than
the construction manager. That was comforting to hear that back.
I then had a talk w/ Jimmy Wall that night explaining more what I'm
hoping to do. He reminded me of an opportunity that I had forgotten
about - Venture capital. I feel like that is a great goal to work
toward. I feel like I would consider consulting for 1-3 years before
VC, but to work toward that. So I would start VC around 35 - 36.
Depending on how VC fares, if I am able to store some cash and find
the time, I would like to consider a law degree at night. I would
still like to consider public office in my late 40's.

===
I have recently started a book I feel like would do me great good to
write. I feel like this one is step 1 and not so much a tangent like
me previous concepts. The title so far is "to walk in newness of
life". I want to lead people to see that Christ in them is all the
power and His glory is what we need. We need to be safe to hold it
though, but we can't be so without acknowledging He's the one doing
the work.

More on that later...
