On Social Capital
=================

FUKUYAMA ON SOCIAL CAPITAL
http://www.imf.org/external/pubs/ft/seminar/1999/reforms/fukuyama.htm
Social capital is important to the efficient functioning of modern
economies, and is the sine qua non of stable liberal democracy. It
constitutes the cultural component of modern societies, which in other
respects have been organized since the Enlightenment on the basis of
formal institutions, the rule of law, and rationality. Building social
capital has typically been seen as a task for "second generation"
economic reform; but unlike economic policies or even economic
institutions, social capital cannot be so easily created or shaped by
public policy. This paper will define social capital, explore its
economic and political functions, as well as its origins, and make
some suggestions for how it can be cultivated.

I. What is Social Capital?
While social capital has been given a number of different definitions,
many of them refer to manifestations of social capital rather than to
social capital itself. The definition I will use in this paper is:
social capital is an instantiated informal norm that promotes
cooperation between two or more individuals. The norms that constitute
social capital can range from a norm of reciprocity between two
friends, all the way up to complex and elaborately articulated
doctrines like Christianity or Confucianism. They must be instantiated
in an actual human relationship: the norm of reciprocity exists in
potentia in my dealings with all people, but is actualized only in my
dealings with my friends. By this definition, trust, networks, civil
society, and the like which have been associated with social capital
are all epiphenominal, arising as a result of social capital but not
constituting social capital itself.
Not just any set of instantiated norms constitutes social capital;
they must lead to cooperation in groups and therefore are related to
traditional virtues like honesty, the keeping of commitments, reliable
performance of duties, reciprocity, and the like. A norm like the one
described by Edward Banfield as characterizing southern Italy, which
enjoins individuals to trust members of their immediate nuclear family
but to take advantage of everyone else, is clearly not the basis of
social capital outside the family.1
James Coleman, who was responsible for bringing the term social
capital into wider use in recent years, once argued that it was a
public good and therefore would be underproduced by private agents
interacting in markets.2 This is clearly wrong: since cooperation is
necessary to virtually all individuals as a means of achieving their
selfish ends, it stands to reason that they will produce it as a
private good (see Section IV below). In Partha Dasgupta's phrase,
social capital is a private good that is nonetheless pervaded by
externalities, both positive and negative.3 An example of a positive
externality is Puritanism's injunction, described by Max Weber, to
treat all people morally, and not just members of the sib or family.4
The potential for cooperation thus spreads beyond the immediate group
of people sharing Puritan norms. Negative externalities abound, as
well. Many groups achieve internal cohesion at the expense of
outsiders, who can be treated with suspicion, hostility, or outright
hatred. Both the Ku Klux Klan and the Mafia achieve cooperative ends
on the basis of shared norms, and therefore have social capital, but
they also produce abundant negative externalities for the larger
society in which they are embedded.
It is sometimes argued that social capital differs from other forms of
capital because it leads to bad results like hate groups or inbred
bureaucracies. This does not disqualify it as a form of capital;
physical capital can take the form of assault rifles or tasteless
entertainment, while human capital can be used to devise new ways of
torturing people. Since societies have laws to prevent the production
of many social "bads," we can presume that most legal forms of social
capital are no less "goods" than the other forms of capital insofar as
they help people achieve their aims.
Perhaps the reason that that social capital seems less obviously a
social good than physical or human capital is because it tends to
produce more in the way of negative externalities than either of the
other two forms. This is because group solidarity in human communities
is often purchased at the price of hostility towards out-group
members. There appears to be a natural human proclivity for dividing
the world into friends and enemies that is the basis of all politics.5
It is thus very important when measuring social capital to consider
its true utility net of its externalities.
Another way of approaching this question is through the concept of the
"radius of trust."6 All groups embodying social capital have a certain
radius of trust, that is, the circle of people among whom cooperative
norms are operative. If a group's social capital produces positive
externalities, the radius of trust can be larger than the group
itself. It is also possible for the radius of trust to be smaller than
the membership of the group, as in large organiza-tions that foster
cooperative norms only among the group's leadership or permanent
staff. A modern society may be thought of as a series of concentric
and overlapping radii of trust (see Figure I). These can range from
friends and cliques up through NGOs and religious groups.
Virtually all forms of traditional culture-social groups like tribes,
clans, village associations, religious sects, etc.-are based on shared
norms and use these norms to achieve cooperative ends. The literature
on development has not, as a general rule, found social capital in
this form to be an asset; it is much more typically regarded as a
liability. Economic modernization was seen as antithetical to
traditional culture and social organizations, and would either wipe
them away or else be itself blocked by forces of traditionalism. Why
should this be so, if social capital is genuinely a form of capital?

The reason, in my view, has to do with the fact that such groups have
a narrow radius of trust. In-group solidarity reduces the ability of
group members to cooperate with outsiders, and often imposes negative
externalities on the latter. For example, in the Chinese parts of East
Asia and much of Latin America, social capital resides largely in
families and a rather narrow circle of personal friends.7 It is
difficult for people to trust those outside of these narrow circles.
Strangers fall into a different category than kin; a lower standard of
moral behavior applies when one becomes, for example, a public
officials. This provides cultural reinforcement for corruption: in
such societies, one feels entitled to steal on behalf of one's family.
Traditional social groups are also afflicted with an absence of what
Mark Granovetter calls "weak ties,"8 that is, heterodox individuals at
the periphery of the society's various social networks who are able to
move between groups and thereby become bearers of new ideas and
information. Traditional societies are often segmentary, that is, they
are composed of a large number of identical, self-contained social
units like villages or tribes. Modern societies, by contrast, consist
of a large number of overlapping social groups that permit multiple
memberships and identities. Traditional societies have fewer
opportunities for weak ties among the segments that make it up, and
therefore pass on information, innovation, and human resources less
easily.

II. What Functions Does Social Capital Play in a Free-Market Liberal
Democracy?
The economic function of social capital is to reduce the transaction
costs associated with formal coordination mechanisms like contracts,
hierarchies, bureaucratic rules, and the like. It is of course
possible to achieve coordinated action among a group of people
possessing no social capital, but this would presumably entail
additional transaction costs of monitoring, negotiating, litigating,
and enforcing formal agreements. No contract can possibly specify
every contingency that may arise between the parties; most presuppose
a certain amount of goodwill that prevents the parties from taking
advantage of unforeseen loopholes. Contracts that do seek to try to
specify all contingencies-like the job-control labor pacts negotiated
in the auto industry that were as thick as telephone books-end up
being very inflexible and costly to enforce.
There was a period when social scientists assumed that modernization
necessarily entailed the progressive replacement of informal
coordination mechanisms with formal ones. There was presumably a
period in human history in which formal law and organizations scarcely
existed, and in which social capital was the only means of achieving
coordinated action; Max Weber argued that, by contrast, rational
bureaucracy constituted the essence of modernity.
The fact of the matter is that coordination based on informal norms
remains an important part of modern economies, and arguably becomes
more important as the nature of economic activity becomes more complex
and technologically sophisticated.9 Many complex services are very
costly to monitor and are better controlled through internalized
professional standards than through formal monitoring mechanisms. A
highly educated software engineer often knows much more about his or
her own productivity than his or her supervisor; procurement is often
more efficient when left to the judgment of an experienced procurement
officer, rather than being done "by the book" as in the case of a good
deal of government procurement. A number of empirical studies suggest
that high-tech R&D is often dependent on the informal exchange of
intellectual property rights, simply because formal exchange would
entail excessive transaction costs and slow down the speed of
interchange.10
Even in non-hi-tech environments, social capital often leads to
greater efficiency than purely formal coordination techniques.
Classical Taylorism, which organized workplaces in a highly
centralized, bureaucratized manner, created many inefficiencies as
decisions were delayed and information distorted while moving up and
down hierarchical chains of command. In many manufacturing facilities,
Taylorism has been replaced by much flatter management structures
which in effect push responsibility down to the factory floor itself.
Workers who are much closer to the sources of local knowledge are
authorized to make decisions on their own, rather than referring them
up a managerial hierarchy. This often leads to great gains in
efficiency,11 but is totally dependent on the social capital of the
workforce. If there is distrust between workers and managers, or
widespread opportunism, then the delegation of authority required in a
typical "lean" manufacturing system will lead to instant paralysis.
This is in effect what happened to General Motors during the strikes
of 1996 and 1998, when a single dissident local (angry, in the first
instance, over the outsourcing of brake parts) was able to shut down
the company's entire North American operations.12
The political function of social capital in a modern democracy was
best elucidated by Alexis de Tocqueville in Democracy in America, who
used the phrase the "art of association" to describe Americans'
propensity for civil association. According to Tocqueville, a modern
democracy tends to wipe away most forms of social class or inherited
status that bind people together in aristocratic societies. Men are
left equally free, but weak in their equality since they are born with
no conventional attachments. The vice of modern democracy is to
promote excessive individualism, that is, a preoccupation with one's
private life and family, and an unwillingness to engage in public
affairs. Americans combated this tendency towards excessive
individualism by their propensity for voluntary association, which led
them to form groups both trivial and important for all aspects of
their lives. This stood in sharp contrast to his native France, which
was beset by a much more thoroughgoing individualism than the United
States. As Tocqueville explained in The Old Regime and the French
Revolution, on the eve of the Revolution "there were not ten Frenchmen
who could come together for a common cause." It was only by coming
together in civil associations that weak individuals became strong;
the associations they formed could either participate directly in
political life (as in the case of a political party or interest group)
or could serve as "schools of citizenship" where individuals learned
the habits of cooperation that would eventually carry over into public
life.
An abundant stock of social capital is presumably what produces a
dense civil society, which in turn has been almost universally seen as
a necessary condition for modern liberal democracy (in Ernest
Gellner's phrase, "no civil society, no democracy").13 If a democracy
is in fact liberal, it maintains a protected sphere of individual
liberty where the state is constrained from interfering. If such a
political system is not to degenerate into anarchy, the society that
subsists in that protected sphere must be capable of organizing
itself. Civil society serves to balance the power of the state and to
protect individuals from the state's power.
In the absence of civil society, the state often needs to step in to
organize individuals who are incapable of organizing themselves. The
result of excessive individualism is therefore not freedom, but rather
the tyranny of what Tocqueville saw as a large and benevolent state
that hovered over society and, like a father, saw to all of its needs.
Low levels of social capital lead to a number of political
dysfunctions, which have been extensively documented. Following
Tocqueville's analysis of France, many observers have noted how
administrative centralization has led to an excessively rigid and
unresponsive political system, one that can be changed only through
anti-systemic upsurges such as the évenements of 1968.14 Low
levels of social capital have been linked to inefficient local
government in southern Italy, as well as to the region's pervasive
corruption.15 In many Latin American societies, a narrow radius of
trust produces a two-tier moral system, with good behavior reserved
for family and personal friends, and a decidedly lower standard of
behavior in the public sphere. This serves as a cultural foundation
for corruption, which is often regarded as a legitimate way of looking
after one's family.
It is of course also possible to have too much of a good thing. One
person's civic engagement is another's rent-seeking; much of what
constitutes civil society can be described as interest groups trying
to divert public resources to their favored causes, whether sugar-beet
farming, women's health care, or the protection of biodiversity. The
public choice literature has analyzed the baleful consequences of
rent-seeking for modern democracies at great length; Mancur Olson has
argued that Britain's long-term economic decline was due to the
long-term buildup of entrenched interest groups there.16 There is no
guarantee that self-styled public interest NGOs actually represent
real public interests. It is entirely possible that too active an NGO
sector may represent an excessive politicization of public life, which
can either distort public policy or lead to deadlock.17
Despite the possibility that a society has have too much social
capital, it is doubtless worse to have too little. For in addition to
being a source of spontaneously-organized groups, social capital is
vital to the proper functioning of formal public institutions. It is
sometimes argued that it is more useful to compare societies in
institutional rather than cultural terms. Chalmers Johnson, for
example, argues that differences in Japanese and American economic
policy is not culturally based, but simply the result of the fact that
Japan had MITI and the United States did not.18 The implication is
that were the US to create an equivalent of MITI in Washington, it
would have similar consequences. But there are any number of reasons
for thinking that different societies have different cultural
capacities for institution-building. Japan's deployment of an economic
planning agency with enormous power over credit allocation did not
lead to the same levels of rent-seeking and outright corruption that
comparable agencies have brought about in Latin America or Africa (or
indeed the US, were it to follow Japan's example). This is testimony
to a number of Japanese cultural characteristics: the respect given
bureaucrats, their high level of training and professionalism, the
general deference to authority in Japanese society, etc., and it
suggests that some institutions cannot be readily transferred to other
societies lacking social capital.

III. How Do We Measure Social Capital?
One of the greatest weaknesses of the social capital concept is the
absence of consensus on how to measure it. At least two broad
approaches have been taken: the first, to conduct a census of groups
and group memberships in a given society, and the second, to use
survey data on levels of trust and civic engagement. At the end of
this section, I will suggest a third metric that may point to a
measure of social capital within private firms. Robert Putnam has
tried to measure social capital by counting groups in civil society,
using a number n to track size of memberships in sports clubs, bowling
leagues, literary societies, political clubs, and the like as they
vary over time and across different geographical regions. There are,
in fact, a large number of n's in any given society, n1..t. Hence the
first measure for the total social capital (SC) in a society is the
sum of the membership of all groups,
(1) SC = n1..t.
Both n and t are important measures of civil society. A small value
for n may limit the kinds of ends a group can achieve; families, for
example, are good at socializing children and running family
restaurants, but not very good at exerting political influence or
manufacturing semiconductors. The variable t itself constitutes a
separate of measure of civil society; unfortunately, limitations in
the data prohibit our knowing what t is for a given society, or how
many missing or undercounted data elements there are between n1 and
nt. A number of attempts have been made to produce censuses of groups
and associations in the United States. One was done by the US
Department of Commerce in 1949, which estimated that there were
201,000 nonprofit voluntary trade and business organizations, women's
groups, labor unions, civic service groups, luncheon clubs, and
professional groups at all levels of American society.19 Lester
Salamon estimates that by 1989 there were 1.14 million nonprofits in
the US, indicating an overall rate of growth much higher than that of
the population as a whole.20 The near-impossibility of producing a
complete census that catalogues the whole range of informal networks
and cliques in a modern society is suggested by the Yankee City study,
which counted some 22,000 different groups in a community of 17,000
people.21 Changing technology changes forms of association: how do we
account for the proliferation of on-line discussion groups, chat
rooms, and e-mail conversations that have exploded with the spread of
personal computers in the 1990s?22
N and t may also be inversely correlated (that is, the larger the
average size of groups, the fewer there are); on the other hand,
because individuals can hold overlapping memberships in multiple
groups, they need not be.
It is clear that each of these n1..t groups is characterized by a
different level of internal cohesion and therefore collective action.
Bowling leagues are not capable of storming beaches or lobbying
Congress, so some qualitative coefficient must be added to provide
some measure of cohesion. Let us call this coefficient c.
Unfortunately, there is no accepted method for measuring the internal
cohesiveness of groups; each one of the c coefficients would have to
be determined subjectively by an outside observer who would note the
types of activities the group could undertake and their difficulty,
its cohesion under stressful circumstances, and other factors. Despite
the subjective nature of its derivation, it is clear that c varies
across groups and is a critical qualitative measure of social capital.
Hence a society's total stock of social capital would be expressed as
(2) SC = (cn)1..t.
As noted above, social capital is more heavily pervaded by
externalities than other forms of capital, so measurement of a
nation's stock of social capital must take these externalities into
account. The radius of trust can be thought of as a type of positive
externality (which we will therefore designate as rp) because it is a
benefit that accrues to the group independently of the collective
action that the group formally seeks to achieve. For example, a sect
that encourages its members to be honest and reliable will foster
better business relationships when they deal with each other
economically, in addition to the sect's religious objectives.
For many groups, the radius of trust would extend to the whole group;
this is true of most families, for example. The rp coefficient in this
case is 1, and the total amount of social capital in the society would
therefore be expressed as
(3) SC = (rpcn)1..t.
Certain groups, particularly larger ones, are characterized by
internal hierarchy, a division of labor, status and functional
distinctions, etc. While the group may be united around some common
interest or passion, the degree to which individual members are
capable of collective action on the basis of mutual trust depends on
their relative position within the organization. Putnam rightly
distinguishes between what he calls a "membership organization" like
the American Association of Retired People (AARP), which, at more than
33 million members, is second only to the Catholic Church in size.
Such a group has a very large n-value, but most of its members simply
contribute yearly dues, receive a newsletter, and would have little
reason for cooperating with one another on any issue not related to
pensions or health benefits. For such an organization, the rp
coefficient may be very small, limited to (for example) those people
who work full-time in its national headquarters (though even there,
there are presumably many employees who are simply wage-earners and
not part of the trust network).
On the other hand, it is possible for a group to have an rp
coefficient larger than 1. To take the earlier example of the
religious sect that encourages honesty and reliability, if these
traits are demanded of its members in their dealings not just with
other members of the sect but generally in their dealings with other
people, then there will be a positive spillover effect into the larger
society. Again, Weber argued in effect that sectarian Puritans had an
rp value greater than 1.
The final factor affecting a society's supply of social capital
concerns not the internal cohesiveness of groups, but rather the way
in which they relate to outsiders. Strong moral bonds within a group
in some cases may actually serve to decrease the degree to which
members of that group are able to trust outsiders and work effectively
with them. A highly disciplined, well-organized group sharing strong
common values may be capable of highly coordinated collective action,
and yet may nonetheless be a social liability. I earlier noted the
fact that strongly familistic societies like China and
central-southern Italy were characterized by an absence of a broader,
generalized social trust outside the family. At best, this prevents
the group from receiving beneficial influences from the outside
environment; at worst, it may actively breed distrust, intolerance, or
even hatred for and violence toward outsiders. Certain groups may be
actively harmful to other parts of society-criminal organizations like
the Mafia or the Crips and Bloods come to mind. A society made up of
the Ku Klux Klan, the Nation of Islam, the Michigan Militia, and
various self-regarding ethnic and racial organizations may score very
high in terms of last three of the four variables given in expression
(3), and each group may have an rp of 1, and yet overall it would be
hard to say that such a society had a large stock of social capital.
Group affiliation can therefore produce a negative externality which
we can think of as the radius of distrust, or rn. The larger the rn
value, the greater the liability that group represents to the
surrounding society; hence the measure for a single group's social
capital, rpcn, needs to be multiplied by the reciprocal of rn. (All rn
values, we assume, must be 1 or greater.) The final value for a
society's total stock of social capital would then be:
(1.4) SC = ((1/rn)rpcn)1..t.
To some extent, we could expect that c and rn might be positively
correlated with one another. That is, internal cohesiveness is often
based on strongly shared norms and values within a group: both the
Marines and the Mormon Church are examples. But the very strength of
those internal bonds creates something of a gulf between members of
the group and those on the outside. Latitudinarian organizations like
most contemporary mainline Protestant denominations in the United
States, by contrast, easily coexist with other groups in the society,
and yet are capable of a much lower level of collective action.
Ideally, one would like to maximize the c and and minimize the rn
values: such would be the case, for example, in a professional
organization that socializes its members into the values of its
particular profession, while not at the same time breeding distrust of
other professions or being closed to influences from them.
As this exercise indicates, producing anything like a believable
census of a society's stock of social capital is a nearly impossible
task, since it involves multiplying numbers that are either
subjectively estimated or simply nonexistent. This leads us to the
other source of data that has been used as a proxy for social capital,
survey data on trust and civic engagement. There are a number of data
sources that are useful here, such as the National Opinion Research
Council's General Social Survey (for the US) and the University of
Michigan's World Values Survey (for international data). Each of these
surveys asks a series of question concerning trust in various
political and social institutions, as well as others probing the
respondents' level of participation in voluntary organizations. There
are manifold problems with survey data, of course, beginning with the
fact that responses will vary according to the way the question is
phrased and who is asking it, to the absence of consistent data for
many countries and many time periods. A general question such as
"Generally speaking, would you say that most people can be trusted or
that you can't be too careful in dealing with people?" (asked on both
the General Social Survey and World Values Survey) won't give you very
much precise information about the radius of trust among the
respondents, or their relative propensities to cooperate with family,
co-ethnics, co-religionists, complete strangers, and the like.
A third possible way of measuring social capital in specific
organizations may be to look at changes in market valuations of a
company before and after takeover offers. The market capitalization of
any company represents the sum of both tangible and intangible assets;
among the latter is, presumably, the social capital embodied in the
firm's workers and management. There is no accepted methodology for
separating out the social capital component of the intangible assets,
which include other things like brand names, good will, expectations
of future market conditions, and the like. Firms being taken over by
other firms, however, are usually bought at a premium to their
pre-takeover price. In such a situation, we can assume that part of
the premium being offered is a measure of the degree to which the new
owners believe that they can manage the new firm better than the old
owners, with all other factors like tangible assets, expectations
about market conditions, etc. being held constant. In many cases, part
of the premium being offered represents the cost savings that the new
owners expect to achieve through realization of economies of scale and
scope; one would have to deduct this from the actual premium to get a
measure of the net value of the new management alone. This management
premium is not a pure measure of social capital; it may consist partly
of human capital rather than social capital. But social capital must
constitute a significant part of the residual, since effective
management is, after all, nothing more than efficient coordination of
the firm's activities.23

IV. Where Does Social Capital Come From?
If we define social capital as instantiated, informal norms that
produce cooperation, economists have a straightforward explanation of
where it comes from: social capital arises spontaneously as a product
of iterated Prisoners Dilemma (PD) games. A one-shot PD game does not
lead to a cooperative outcome because defection constitutes a Nash
equilibrium for both players; if the game is iterated, however, a
simple strategy like tit-for-tat (playing cooperation for cooperation
and defection for defection) leads both players to a cooperative
outcome. In non-game theoretic turns, if individuals interact with
each other repeatedly over time, they develop a stake in a reputation
for honesty and reliability. Market interactions in a commercial
society leads, as Adam Smith observed, to the development of bourgeois
social virtues like honesty, industriousness, and prudence.24 A
society composed entirely of Kant's "rational devils" will develop
social capital over time, simply as a matter of the devils' long-term
self-interest.
Social capital is clearly spontaneously generated all the time through
the playing of iterated PD games. Both Robert Ellickson25 and Elinor
Ostrom26 have catalogued many empirical cases of cooperative norms
arising as a result of repeated community interaction. The latter's
database of instances in which communities have successfully dealt
with common pool resource problems is particularly interesting because
this class of problems constitutes an n-sided PD game which should
theoretically be much harder to solve through iteration than a
two-player game.
The economists' approach to understanding how social capital is
generated is ultimately very limited, however. The problem is that
social capital more often than not is produced by hierarchical sources
of authority, which lay down norms and expect obedience to them for
totally a-rational reasons. The world's major religions like Buddhism,
Hinduism, Christianity, or Islam, or large cultural systems like
Confucianism, are examples. Not only do norms from such sources not
come about through decentralized bargaining; they are transmitted from
one generation to the next through a process of socialization that
involves much more habit than reason. Path dependence-another word for
tradition-means that norms that are clearly socially suboptimal can
persist for very long periods of time.
It is, of course, possible to try to give economic or rational
explanations for religious and cultural phenomena, and thus to try to
fit them into some larger theory of social behavior based on rational
choice. There was for some time a school of "functionalist" sociology
and anthropology that tried to find rational utilitarian reasons for
the most bizarre social rules. The Hindu ban on eating cows was
ascribed, for example, to the fact that cows were resources that had
to be protected for other uses like plowing and dairy-farming.
Similarly, one could try to explain the Protestant Reformation in
terms of the economic conditions prevailing in central Europe in the
sixteenth century that led people to respond to religious reformers
like Luther, Calvin, and Melanchthon. But ultimately, these accounts
prove to be unsatisfying because they are too reductionist; all such
historical developments usually incorporate a substantial measure of
chance, genius, accident, or creativity that cannot be explained in
terms of prior conditions. Max Weber stood Marx on his head by arguing
that the cultural "superstructure" actually produced the economic
"substructure": it was the moral values inculcated by Puritanism, and
particularly the fact that virtues like honesty and reciprocity now
had to be practiced beyond the family, that made the modern capitalist
world possible in the first place. In Weber's account, culture was the
uncaused cause, the product of "charisma."
Religion continues to be a factor in economic development. One of the
most important and underrated cultural revolutions going on in the
world today is the conversion of Catholics to Protestantism by
(largely) American evangelicals and Mormons. This process, which has
now been under empirical observation for nearly two generations, has
produced social effects in the poor communities where it has occurred
not unlike those ascribed to Puritanism by Weber: converts to
Protestantism find their incomes, education levels, hygiene, and
social networks expanding.27
Apart from religion, shared historical experience can shape informal
norms and produce social capital. Both Germany and Japan experienced
considerable labor unrest and conflict between workers, managers, and
the state in the 1920s and 30s. The Nazis and Japan's military rulers
ultimately suppressed independent labor unions and replaced them with
"yellow" ones. After their defeat in World War II, the democratic
successor regimes opted for a much more consensual approach to
management-labor relations that produced Germany's postwar
Sozialmarktwirtschaft and Japan's lifetime employment system. Whatever
their current dysfunctions, these institutions played a critical role
in allowing the two societies to return to growth after the war, and
constituted a form of social capital.

V. How Can We Increase the Stock of Social Capital?
The discussion of where social capital comes from should be
informative to policymakers who want to increase the stock of social
capital in a given country. States can both do some positive things to
create social capital, and forebear from doing others that deplete a
society's stock. We can make four observations.
First, states do not have many obvious levers for creating many forms
of social capital. Social capital is frequently a byproduct of
religion, tradition, shared historical experience, and other factors
that lie outside the control of any government. Public policy can be
aware of already existing forms of social capital-for example, the
social networks used to develop information for microlending-but it
cannot duplicate the effect of religion as a source of shared values.
Policymakers also need to be aware that social capital, particularly
when associated with groups that have a narrow radius of trust-can
produce negative externalities and be detrimental to the larger
society.
Second, the area where governments probably have the greatest direct
ability to generate social capital is education. Educational
institutions do not simply transmit human capital, they also pass on
social capital in the form of social rules and norms. This is true not
just in primary and secondary education, but in higher and
professional education as well. Doctors learn not just medicine but
the Hippocratic oath; one of the greatest safeguards against
corruption is to give senior bureaucrats high-quality professional
training and to create an esprit de corps among this elite.
Third, states indirectly foster the creation of social capital by
efficiently providing necessary public goods, particularly property
rights and public safety. Diego Gambetta has shown that the Sicilian
Mafia can be understood as a private protector of property rights in a
part of Italy where the state has historically failed to perform this
function.28 Something similar to this has sprung up in Russia during
the 1990s. Private property rights protection is very inferior to the
state-supplied version, since there is nothing to prevent these
private providers from getting into a host of other illegal activities
as well. There are also economies of scale in the deployment of
coercive force used to enforce property rights. People cannot
associate, volunteer, vote, or take care of one another if they have
to fear for their lives when walking down the street. Given a stable
and safe environment for public interaction and property rights, it is
more likely that trust will arise spontaneously as a result of
iterated interactions of rational individuals.
Fourth, states can have a serious negative impact on social capital
when they start to undertake activities that are better left to the
private sector or to civil society. The ability to cooperate is based
on habit and practice; if the state gets into the business of
organizing everything, people will become dependent on it and lose
their spontaneous ability to work with one another. France had a rich
civil society at the end of the Middle Ages, but horizontal trust
between individuals weakened as a result of a centralizing state that
set Frenchmen at each other through a system of petty privileges and
status distinctions. The same thing occurred in the former Soviet
Union after the Bolshevik Revolution, where the Communist Party
consciously sought to undermine all forms of horizontal association in
favor of vertical ties between Party-State and individual. This has
left post-Soviet society bereft of both trust and a durable civil
society. There are, of course, good reasons why countries should
restrict the size of their state sectors for economic reasons. On top
of this, one can add a cultural motive of preserving a sphere for
individual action and initiative in building civil associations.
If we look beyond the role of the state, there remain at least two
additional sources of social capital. The first is religion. General
social science theories about the inevitability of secularization
appear to apply primarily to Western Europe; there is little evidence
that religion is losing its grip elsewhere, including the United
States.29 Religiously-inspired cultural change remains a live option
in many parts of the world; the Islamic world and Latin America have
both seen the growth of new forms of religiosity in recent decades.
Obviously, not all forms of religion are positive from the standpoint
of social capital; sectarianism can breed intolerance, hatred, and
violence. But religion has also historically been one of the most
important sources of culture, and is likely to remain so in the
future.
The second source of social capital in developing countries is
globalization. Globalization has been the bearer not just of capital
but of ideas and culture as well. Everyone is well aware of the ways
in which globalization injures indigenous cultures and threatens
longstanding traditions. But it also leaves new ideas, habits, and
practices in its wake, from accounting standards to management
practices to NGO activities. It is not just investment bankers who can
take advantage of the global communications and information
revolution; activists of all sorts from environmentalists to labor
organizers can now operate transnationally to a much greater extent
than before.30 The issue, for most societies, is whether they are net
losers or gainers from this process, that is, whether globalization
breaks down traditional cultural communities without leaving anything
positive in its wake, or rather, is an external shock that breaks
apart dysfunctional traditionals and social groups and becomes the
entering wedge for modernity.
