Reflection and preparation (From Dad)
=====================================

The habit or practice of reflection has increased and become very
important to me over time. I have noticed people are running so fast
and not taking the time to sit, think, review, remember and readjust
their lifestyles and schedules. With some regular times of daily,
weekly, monthly, quarterly and annual reflection, it can lead to
peace, stability and very purposeful living.

The following questions are to get us thinking about this past year
and prepare us for “The Best Year Ever.” How am I doing in
the major areas of my LIFE, MARRIAGE, FAMILY, WORK and CHURCH?

1. LIFE
A. Spirit
1) Do I love God, my Father with all my heart, soul, mind and
strength?
2) Am I growing in my intimate relationship with Jesus Christ?
3) Am I living and walking by the Holy Spirit?
4) How is my time in the Scriptures? Am I delighting in and meditating
on God’s Word day and night?
5) Do I find myself praying more or less about all things?
6) What 3 spiritual practices generated the greatest benefit?

B. Soul (Mind, Will and Emotions)
1) What am I doing to daily renew my mind?
2) Are my thoughts pure, lovely, noble, truthful, and full of praise?
3) What are the best three books I read last year?
4) What kind of choices did I make last year?
5) Did I choose the way of life versus death? Did I choose the way of
the Spirit versus the way of the flesh? Did I choose to walk by faith
versus walk by sight?
6) Was I full of love, joy, peace, patience and self-control?
7) Was there any anger, guilt, greed or jealousy that needs to be
resolved?

C. Body (Did I live in B.A.L.A.N.C.E?)
1) BREATHING - Am I getting enough oxygen in my blood?
2) AWARENESS - Am I paying attention to what is going on in my body?
3) LIQUIDS - Am I drinking enough water?
4) ANTIOXIDANTS - Am I taking the right of Multi, C and E?
5) CONDITIONING - Am I exercising 3-5 times a week?
6) EFFECTIVE REST - Am I getting 7-8 hours of sleep?
7) What three ways will I take better care of myself this next year?

2. MARRIAGE
A. Intimacy
1) Does my wife know she is the #1 priority relationship on the
planet?
2) Am I loving my wife as Christ loves the church?
3) Are we praying together on a regular basis?
4) Are we regularly sharing what we are learning from our own
relationship with Jesus Christ?
5) Am I washing and cleansing her with the Word of God?
6) Am I carefully listening to her thoughts, feelings and desires?
7) Are we enjoying many sexual and non-sexual touches?
8) Are we enjoying romance and physical intimacy on a regular basis?
9) Did we have an awesome anniversary celebration?
10) Have we enjoyed quarterly getaways?
11) Did we have our monthly MSM, Marriage Staff Meetings?
12) How was our “Weekly Focus” time?
13) Did I provide her the structure or spontaneity she needs and
desires?
14) Did I give her the full and focused attention she deserves?
15) On a scale of 1-10, how would my wife rate our marriage?
16) What needs to be done to get it to a 10?

B. Finances
1) Did we honor the Lord with the first fruit of all our increase?
2) Did we give generously and cheerfully?
3) Did we save appropriately?
4) Did we invest for the future proportionately?
5) Did we spend moderately?
6) What financial adjustments must we make for this next year?

3. FAMILY
A. Father
1) How am I doing as a Dad?
2) Am I walking humbly before my children?
3) Am I showing them unconditional love
4) What did I teach them this past year? What do they need to know?
5) Am I a model to follow? Can I say, “Follow me as I follow
Christ?”
6) Am I spending the quality and quantity of time my children need?
7) Am I praying for them on a daily basis?
8) What “Etched Memories” did I create this past year?
9) What home activities tend to generate the greatest pay back?

B. Son
1) How am I doing as a son?
2) How did I honor my Father and Mother this past year?

C. Brother
1) How am I doing as a brother?
2) How did I love and care for my brothers and sisters?

4. WORK
A. Did I see my work as a gift from God?
B. Did I do my work as unto the Lord?
C. Am I living as a man under authority showing respect, gratefulness,
a servant and quiet spirit?
D. Am I showing excellence and diligence in my work?
E. Am I taking the low place and trusting God for His invitations,
appointments and exaltation in His time?
F. Am I “choosing to cheat”?
G. What three work relationships need more time?

5. CHURCH/MINISTRY
A. Am I living in community with other believers?
B. Am I investing, influencing and inviting other outsiders?
C. Where did I strategically serve in my local church?

Some additional questions:

6. In reviewing last year, what areas reveal the most progress? The
least progress?

➢ Most –

➢ Least -

7. What is the wildest, most unconventional thing I could do this next
year to live with more passion? What out of the box thinking could we
do?

8. Who will hold me accountable to be my best self this next?

9. The most significant way I will influence others is…

10. List 3-5 of your best achievements this past year

11. Strengths and Successes - Identify what has worked well this past
year

12. Struggles and Stresses - What has not been working so well?

13. Habits - What are the most purposeful daily habits you could
develop/upgrade over the next 12 months? Develop 1 habit at a time,
not 2, not 5.

14. Clutter - Identify 3 messes or clutter projects you’d like
to clean up in the next 12 months? Clutter can be anything that is
taking up room in my mind…for example we have 1000 AU’s
(Attention Units) and anything from a sick relative, to way ward
child, to troublesome marriage, to bitterness can all take up mental
and emotional capacity. We must un clutter our minds so that we can
reach full potential.

21. Character - Proverbs 22:1 says A good name is more desirable than
great riches; to be esteemed is better than silver or gold. Identify 3
qualities you’d like to see associated with your name as well
as how you’d define each quality. I wrote the following for me.

1. Loving – That I fully received the love of God into my life
and loved Him and people in return

- Matthew 22:37-39 - Jesus replied: " `Love the Lord your God with all
your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind.' ^38 This is
the first and greatest commandment. ^39 And the second is like it:
`Love your neighbor as yourself.'

2. Humility – Taking the low place before God and others

- Luke 14:7 When he noticed how the guests picked the places of honor
at the table, he told them this parable: 8 “When someone
invites you to a wedding feast, do not take the place of honor, for a
person more distinguished than you may have been invited. 9 If so, the
host who invited both of you will come and say to you, ‘Give
this man your seat.’ Then, humiliated, you will have to take
the least important place. 10 But when you are invited, take the
lowest place, so that when your host comes, he will say to you,
‘Friend, move up to a better place.’ Then you will be
honored in the presence of all your fellow guests. 11 For everyone who
exalts himself will be humbled, and he who humbles himself will be
exalted.”

3. Servant – That I was more interested in the needs of others
than myself.

- Mark 10:43-44 - Not so with you. Instead, whoever wants to become
great among you must be your servant, ^44 and whoever wants to be
first must be slave of all.
