April 2008
==========

4/13
I can't seem to get this computer to catch the airport, which is
keeping me from being able to journal.
It's an interesting time right now.
I wrote in "30 something" that I am looking to start a new business
with Jeremy Picker. I am spending a lot of time to go about it a
different way of setting up all the non-urgent things.
I feel like we have a niche that would really be competitive..

I'm supposed to talk with Denise and it's soul issues and I'm
realizing that I don't like talking about it much. There is something
in me that wants to remain hidden and ignore that part of the soul. I
thank God that He has allowed me to recognize that and be able to
fight through it. The reason I wanted to meet with her was for her to
help me through that. I want to have a soft heart and soul.

I want to know what it means to focus. How would I rate myself there?
How would I be graded?
The most important things for me right now:
1. Loving Danae and her KNOWING IT
2.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

4/14

I ran for the first time in months! Up at 5 am and I feel great!
Lately my quite times have been short prayers asking for Christ to
grow in me.
He is the Life, Source, and has a higher calling in all of this.

"O Praise the Lord, all ye nations: Praise Him, all ye people. For His
merciful kindness is great toward us: And the truth of the Lord
endureth forever. Praise ye the LORD." Psalm 117.

I am blessed to have the clarity I have now. My prayer is for
continual growth in compassion and love for those who have not had the
opportunity. I want to contribute and I hope one day to be able to do
public Christian works. But that is neither the goal of life, nor
necessary.
Christ in me wants to help others. I could see it has helping to build
schools or ways to help people get more than just a handout.
Equipping them with the tools of life...

I have this renewed excitement about the things I'm learning and about
to learn. I feel completely relieved that I can learn IT the way the
pros learn it and on my own pace with this site I've encountered
called Lynda.com.

I hope and trust it will develop the IT needs I am interested in.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

4/20

So much is going on yet I'm having trouble recording since I have
switched to an online journal. It's crazy how minor things can mess up
routines. For some reason our airport won't pick up my laptop so I
can't write in a normal place. I've figured out a few ways around it,
so maybe I can pick back up my morning routine.

Danae Has been in FL the last 11 days and she gets back in on Tuesday.
I think it's been great for both of us. She really misses her family
and wanted to be with them while pregnant. I am enjoying a period of
extra work time trying to establish AMB3R.

While life has been with it's challenges, the Lord continues to show
His faithfulness. I am 11 days now without my car - I took it in for a
simple repair and it needed $2500 worth of repair! Thankfully the
dealer I bought it from agreed to pay for parts, saving me about
$1500.

I have been really enjoying the vine/branch analogy lately. The Lord
is really making this one come alive. That we as branches have no life
or power, except what comes from the Vine. He is the vine and there is
no life outside of Him.

While I am so thankful about our duplex in terms of cost and
proximity. It is the most challenging place for us to live so far.
It's so much smaller, and we have yet to setup our bed or babyroom. I
know it's taking some out of Danae living like this. I hope to have it
resolved by the time she gets home...

It's only been 3 months, but I feel like I'm picking up this thing
called Programming. It's been a great intellectual exercise and I see
so many benefits as a small business owner to be able to manage and
build my IT personally. I was reading a book for the second time
yesterday about it and it's really starting to make some sense.

I also picked up a new goal setting book called `success is not an
accident' which has been great. Those books are so helpful for my
mentality and inspiration that, in Christ, I can do all things.

I have been praying for the sprits of the 9C's to influence my life.
Those spirits really being attributes or characteristics of Christ.
My prayer is lately that in Christ

  * The spirit of Concentration would influence my life
  * The spirit of Clarity would influence my life
  * The spirit of Comprehension would influence my life
  * The spirit of Capacity would influence my life
  * The spirit of Cleanliness would influence my life
  * The spirit of Character would influence my life
  * The spirit of Compassion would influence my life
  * The spirit of Communication would influence my life

Those are all virtues and realities of Christ. I pray those things
because I have no power to change them in my own efforts or desires.
-
4/21

I want to please Danae. I want to serve her and meet her needs. I find
initimacy and relational depth is difficult for me. I'm praying for
Christ to open my heart and soul to His light and life.

Talking with Jimmy Wall yesterday and we discussed the idea of doing
what you love. I had ideas of car washes and others...
What would be the common thread that I would do on these multiple
busineses?
- Maintain their finances
- Ensure all components are being met - Sales, marketing, IT, OPs, HR,
Finance
- Find great people to partner with on the ops side

The objective then is to find people who love the work and help them
with support structures - IT, Finance, Systems, Efficiency and
effectiveness, and even some funding...

----------------------------------------------------------------------

4/22

Danae is coming home after 12 days with her family. I has been really
good for both of us. She had an emotional drain, and while gone I've
been able to work on AMB3R and it's establishment.

There are many emotions going on at once too. I am excited and miss
her but I'm also nervous. The house is still incomplete and it's a
mess. I'm doing what I can to keep it clean.

I suppose the pressure is good, but it is not doubt heavy. I find that
I am able to trust the LORD with my own life, but it's hard when it's
outside of that. Our finances are not strong enough to really afford
much more than the essentials. With the baby due in 3 months and
school starting, My prayer is that the Lord would continue lead us
through it.

"Be merciful unto me, O Lord; for I cry unto Thee daily" Ps 86:3

I'm 30 now. I find that I haven't inherited any special non-20 powers.
Jimmy wall talks with me on Sunday to reveal that his base is
$100,000, plus he'll make commissions of $75 - 100,000 on top of that.
I hear that, and I want so bad to compare and contrast with my
situation. I want to ask what is up with my inability to generate a
sizable income.
I have to remind myself that the purpose of this earth is not to be
consumed by experiences and the appearance of wealth. I am exactly
where God wants me. I have to just keep the faith that He will bring
me out of this in due time and, Lord willing, without huge amounts of
financial or emotional debt.

I still feel the bondage of living in my flesh. I hate it. It feels
like oppression of the most dreaded kind. Father, create in me a clean
heart and attach me to Your Vine. I am undone without you.
-
4/28
Mom came into town for the last 3 days and helped us get
established... well, SHE established us! Praise the LORD! Our duplex
looks and feels incredible. Space to read and study and relax.

Danae came home and I'm praying that I can serve her and love her and
meet her where she's at. Since being pregnant, she is extra emotions
and needs. I want to meet them, but I have only so much strength and
it's quickly sucked out of me. I SUCK at being emotionally supportive
and empathetic. I need to get better. It's so uncomfortable to me to
be in that role.

I experienced a great connection with the Lord and now i'm in a new
place. I feel I was up on the mountain top, but fell off and stumbled
down a new side that I'm not familiar with. While I know I am still as
connected with Christ, the feelings aren't there.
I think this is part of the journey. That once you feel comfortable,
the Lord allows us to be moved from that place because we get numb or
something.
Lord, here we are in a new place. What may I do today? How may You be
glorified, revealed, and connected to me and I to You every moment?
While I don't care for this feeling, the reality is You are working
all things toward the good and glory of Yourself.

As I stand here, I know where I want to be. I want to remain and be
found in Him every moment of every day. In Christ, the Vine, the
creator and giver of all life. May You flow Your life in me.
-
4/29

Our little Dog Bambi started acting funny about 3 days ago. She looked
and acted sick and we didn't know what it was. We took her into the
emergency vet 2 days ago but they didn't really know what was wrong.
So yesterday we took her to another vet to run more tests. They
couldn't find anything so they sent her to a third place. By this time
she had really gone down hill. She was pretty unresponsive and wasn't
able to really stand.
When the 3rd place said that they didn't know what to do and that
searching was going to require several thousand dollars, we decided to
put her down.
It was a pretty tough moment for Danae, she loved that dog.
I am sad for Danae, but I feel like preparing for the baby, that this
was the best thing. While loveable, Bambi was a very needy dog and I'm
not sure how Danae would have handled the two.

I got up at 4:30 this morning to study for my Accounting final exam.
It is my last NSCC class. I am so greatful to have taken these
courses.

My prayer is that I may Trust the Lord completely with all that is
going on and continues to. I don't know how to make substantial
strides to get out of debt. My prayer is that Jesus leads me and takes
over money mgmt. I can't seem to get us out of it. It feels like the
solution is to make more money... is that it?
And by making more - the way to do it is get a better job by getting a
better education. While they appear to be practical solutions, I know
these are not the answer. I am just trying to do it right. Jesus, may
I remain in You.
-
4/30

I took my accounting Final yesterday. Feels good to finish that set of
courses. In all, I took 4 Accounting Courses and a statistics course
through NSCC.

I want to read a corporate finance book before enrolling to at least
get a general introduction to the topic before I begin. I'm also
excited still about IT. I can't believe how much I want to figure that
one out.

I'm reading Tommy Newberry's book "Success is not an accident" and
some recent thoughts I have been thinking are about who and what
successful people are. One of my imaginations about them is they are
masters of their time. Wasted time is at a low. They know what to do
and remain on point. IT's a form of organization to be able to handle
more in less amount of time.

I can't explain it but there is this internal recognition or vision to
believe that I am destined to do some great things on earth. Not by my
strength, but there is a sense of responsibility that has seemed to be
birthed in me that I have been given to much to live a mediocre life.
My first objective is to stabilize my home life. To increase my income
so that we're not living pay check to pay check.
