March 2008
==========

Pressure and chaos bring my flesh to the surface big time.
I spent this morning, the first quiet moment I feel with a semblance
of settlement just reviewing backpack and getting some updated context
for life.
Lord, the message I feel I'm hearing repeatedly is that this life is
temporary and nothing is certain but You.
The economy threatens on a daily basis, I can't seem to get a pay
raise to save my life, and debts are constant and continuous.
Lord, what then are we doing? What are we to do in this `un-do'
journey on earth?
Like william young, author of the Shack, says that this has to work
for the broken too. It can't work only for the untouched.
Lord, what are we doing here?

I have some issues:
- My intimacy with Danae.
- My legalistic, shortsighted lack of compassion or sensitivity.
- My drive for significance in my vocation
- My lack of trust and peace in God.
- My continual ambition to take control of my life and it's course.
- My love of earthly desires and possessions

Father, I need You in mercy to reach me. I hate who I am in my flesh.
Cold, dead, selfish, insecure, anxious, afraid, and more.
How then can I nail it all to the tree that You alone are the Life and
voice inside me.
-----------------

3/11

It's such a weird place to be, a sales rep. For I don't know when or
where my sales come from. I sit and wait and do what I can to draw
attention. But really, it's the Lord.

Looks like I'm going to close about $85,000 in sales today...
I am humbled that the Lord would have favor on my sales. I feel the
thin ice that I stand on called `being a man and providing.' The Lord
is the one who is doing it. The Lord is the one calling us to His
plan.
I don't know that we receive any more than the Lord wants to give.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

3/12

I've been thinking about Pride and what is it really. I find that it's
a emotion or state of mind based on incomplete or misguided
information making one believe that his current position elevates
himself over others. It's blind and irrational.
Humility then is the awareness that I do not know. That life is
grander and God bigger than I will ever comprehend this side of
eternity, or the other side for that matter.
It is the attribute of man that is revealed when his heart is
believing he possesses some original power.

I've watched the process of my faith in the past take the path of:
Awareness > Consdieration > Study for context > Process for validation
> Accept / find the path to believe > Begin, then Belive > Implement
into action.

I wonder if I've come to the point of action when I live with this
reality that I have no power. I have nothing but what God has filled
me with. How can I put that into action because I truly believe it.
My mind begins to be bombarded with ideas of a vegitable sitting in a
chair doing nothing if I were to accept that I have no power or life
beyond what God has placed on me.
Lord, what does it look like to live in this reality?

----------------------------------------------------------------------

3/13
I have a phone call with Denise yesterday confessing that I have
trouble with romance. That the feelings are similar to singing and
dancing in public. I don't care for those and they are embarrassing.
We spoke for an hour about this and I'm processing why I have some
issues opening myself up to Danae in a way that I am uncomfortable
with.
For some reason, I keep thinking that this could be tied back to my
highschool days when I would look at pornography and `take care' of
the situation...

----------------------------------------------------------------------

3/14

I watched a movie trailer yesterday called Call and response about
modern day slavery. The girl on the introduction has been on my mind
since I saw it. My heart is overwhelmed with sadness when so much
wickedness and evil can persist still in the world today...
I don't know if I will ever understand the complete blessings to live
in the US with all it's troubles. I am very aware I am in a special
place. How then may I properly share refuge, freedom, abundance and
all out blessing?
I will confess that imagination can sometimes be worse than reality.
Additionally, the same God rules over that part of the world too.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

3/20

Back from a 3 day quick trip to MT to get the design studio approved.
Wrote about it in `30 something'.
Things are slowly settling here in Denver. Our trooper has arrived and
we're going to go pick it up.

I want to return to a routine of health and and time management.
Being disciplined in what we eat, exersize, and having time bins and
sticking to them.

I'm also thinking about these things of intimacy and vulnerability
with Danae that Denise and I spoke about. I want to change and loose
myself in Christ and His love and life. For This component of me is
not me and thereby the only one who could accomplish this newness
would be Christ.

Father, I call upon Your indwelling Spirit in me to break free and
invade the darkness of my soul. This life in it's temporal state is
neither about my glory or name. This life is the place where I see I
have no power or life without You. I want that to remain the goal, to
Experience the fullness of Christ in and around me. While I toil and
labor in vocation, may it not intoxicate me. May I find that arena
another place for You to be glorified and that I may dissappear. May I
speak to people in grace and love, and may I share the amazing news of
the gospel whenever You prompt me to.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

3/29
I am thankful for the scriptures that remind me that there is more to
life than what I can see. There is a greater, eternal plan going on in
there very common, seemingly uneventful activities.
My prayer is that the Lord would establish us, set us up on a rock
higher than we could climb, and continue to reveal Jesus in and
through us.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

3/31
Before I need,
You are.

I know the Lord is doing something greater in me than making tees. I
know it's more than just living. But it just feels like I'm trying to
make the practical parts of life work right now.
We have been living on 60k a year by God's grace. For some reason that
has been the minimum for us to have a decent living. Even with that
income though, we have months at the end where we're not eating much.
So it hurts when my pay got cut back in December.

Lord, I know I only need You. I am asking You if we may have financial
margin to prepare for the baby, take Danae out for coffee or dinner,
to allow Danae to travel to see her family, to be able to pay down
some debts, to get the home fixed up, to have some groceries in the
fridge at the end of the month.

I am going to cast these cares on You for I know You care for us. With
a baby on the way I believe You will provide for him as You provide
for all Your children.

I confess my weeknesses and total dependency on You for establishment.

While I want the revelation of Christ in me and God to be glorified, I
find it extremely tough to maintain that. Lord, may I rest in You. I
have to admit I don't like pain or discomfort. However, I know You are
working all these things for good and unto Your glory.

If this place is for spiritual birth, I feel like I'm coming to a
point of birthing something here soon. I'm feeling like I'm growing
out of my current situation and I'm asking God to show me what and
where. I feel like I'm ready to take on some financial responsibility.
To see some fatness off the work of my hands.
Lord, is there something You are about to birth in me?

"The Heaven, even the heavens, are the LORD's. But the earth hath He
given to the children of men." Psalm 115:16

- If You have given it, then I should be permitted to walk in that
gift and take it... yes?
