Rough Draft - Steph part 1
==========================

Non Current Liabilities of Discontinued Operations

There is one division of the company that was sold, women’s
intimate apparel, and is reported as discontinued operations for
$348.7 million. VF does not show having any non-current liabilities
from discontinued operations in 2007, but did report having $13,586 of
non-current liabilities from discontinued operations in 2006.

Net Income

On the Income Statement (which shows the current year and two years
back whereas the Balance Sheet only shows the current year and the
previous year) The Net Income has grown from $506,702 in 2005, $533,
516 in 2006, and $591,621 in 2007, which, is an 11% increase over the
previous year. VF did mention that the Net Income did include the
global intimate apparel business reported as a discontinued operation.
This makes sense since over the past five years the total revenues
from continuing operations, operating income from continuing
operations, and income from continuing operations have all steadily
increased over time. The two consolidated factors that influence the
Net Income on the Income Statement are total revenues and total
expenses.

Of the five coalitions at VF, the two with the greatest total revenues
are Jeanswear with $2,897 and Outdoor with $2,387. The Imagewear,
Sportswear and Comtemporary Brand (which was acquired this year so it
does not have figures from previous years) have a combined total of
$1,814 in total revenues. It is a positive trend that the amount of
total revenues have all steadily increased over the years with the
exception of Sportswear which saw a decline from $686 to $684. (Sorry
I didn’t mean to get into total revenues it just sort of flowed
nicely here…maybe this is where we can include revenues and
expenses from the income statement?)

(Should we talk about Cost of Goods Sold here as well?)

The Net Income affects the ROE (return on equity), the Net Income
(income statement) divided by the Average stockholders’ equity
(balance sheet). The ROE is “the principle summary measure of
company performance” (Textbook, p. 4-4). We will further discuss
ROE and what it means but wanted to demonstrate how to calculate the
ROE using the Net Income.

ROE = Net Income / Average Stockholders’ Equity = $591,621 /
(($3,576,685 + $5,465,693) / 2) = .131

Current Liabilities

Total current liabilities increased from $1,014,848 in 2006 to
$1,134,387 in 2007.
Short Term borrowings increased about $43,000 from 2006 to 2007.
• VF has a $1.0 billion senior domestic unsecured committed
revolving bank credit agreement which expires in October 2012. Under
the terms of this agreement VF’s ratio of consolidated
indebtedness to consolidated capitalization must remain below 60% and
if VF fails any terms of any covenant under this agreement the banks
can terminate their obligation to lend and any of VF’s
outstanding bank payments may become due and payable. This credit
agreement is what caused the short-term borrowings to increase as
substantially as it did from 2006 to 2007.
Accounts Payable increased about $124,000 from 2006 to 2007
Accrued liabilities increased about $95,000 from 2006 to 2007
• Assessing the breakdown of accrued liabilities it is likely
that the two liabilities that caused the difference between 2006 and
2007 were “Other” with an increase in $50,000 and
“Compensation” which grew from $109,371 in 2006 to
$135,621 in 2007.
• There was not much significance in the other accrued
liabilities category to deem influence on the overall total of accrued
liabilities.
Current portion of long-term debt decreased from $68,876 to only
$3,803
Current liabilities of discontinued operations also dropped from
$78,990 to $1,071

Intangible Assets

Intangible assets such as trademarks, patents, domain names, logos,
designs, graphics, and intellectual property have a substantial value
for VF (who monitor and enforce to the full appropriate legal extent).
Licenses can be granted for other parties to manufacture and sell
products using VF’s intellectual property. (Is royalties
included in intangible assets?) Another intangible asset, royalties,
generated a small portion of VF’s revenues (1.1% or 78
million). The cause most likely to have caused such a significant
increase in intangible assets is the result of five acquisitions in
the past year: 7 For All Mankind, Lucy Activewear,
Majestic Athletic, Inc. , Eagle Creek Inc. , and The
North Face – China.

The amount of intangible assets nearly doubled from $755,693 in 2006
to $1,435,269 in 2007. Looking closer at the current figure, VF had
about 1.0 billion in trademark intangible assets and approximately 0.5
billion of intangible assets that are being amortized. The trademark
intangible assets are not amortized but are tested annually for
impairment. (If the carrying values of intangible assets ever exceed
its fair value, then, it would be written down and an impairment cost
is recognized.)

When amortizing license agreements, the straight-line and accelerated
methods are used; customer relationships use accelerated methods; and
trademarks and other use the straight-line method.

The combined total amount of Intangible Assets and Goodwill represent
42% of VF’s total assets and 76% of Common Stockholder’
Equity.

Company Info

V.F. Corporation (VF) is engaged in branded lifestyle apparel and
related products. VF owns a portfolio of brands which are categorized
into five coalitions that consist of Jeanswear, Outdoor, Imagewear,
Sportswear and Contemporary Brands to help more accurately reflect the
consumers’ specific activities and interests. The products are
marketed to consumers shopping in specialty stores, upscale and
traditional department stores, national chains and mass merchants.

“If you want to really know the quality of a garment, you
can’t just look at it on the rack. You need to turn it inside
out. Examine its design. Check out the fabric and the fit. Tug on the
seam to see how it is made – and what it is made of. The same
is true of a company.”

Contemporary Brands Coalition
VF had five acquisitions in 2007 – 7 For All Mankind,
Lucy Activewear, Majestic Athletic, Inc., Eagle
Creek, and The North Face – China. Upon
acquisition both 7 of Mankind and Lucy Activewear
would create a new growth platform, the fifth and newest coalition,
Contemporary Brands. VF did sell their women’s intimate apparel
line, and is included it in the financials as a discontinued
operation.

Jeanswear Coalition
This coalition consists of Jeanswear and related casual products. The
larger brands consist of Lee and Wrangler. Jeanswear
contributes 40% of the total revenue, the largest of all five
coalitions.

Outdoor Coalition
A group of outdoor activity-based businesses, which is VF’s
fastest growing business. The Outdoor coalition contributes 33% of
VF’s total revenues. The largest Outdoor brand is The North
Face which is sold globally. Recently VF reacquired the rights
to market The North Face in China and Nepal. Other VF Outdoor
brands are Vans, JanSport, Kippling, and
Reef.

Imagewear Coalition
This coalition consists of an occupational apparel division.
Approximately two-thirds of the sales are to industrial distributors
that in turn supply work clothes to employees for on-the-job uniforms.
These uniforms consist of slacks, pants, shirts, jackets, overalls,
etc… The Imagewear coalition is now also responsible for
decorated sports apparel under licenses grated by the MLB, NFL, NBA,
NHL, ESPN, and many others.

Sportswear Coalition
The one principle lifestyle brand of Sportwear is the Nautica
brand. It is currently marketed in department stores and specialty
stores. Department stores have undergone significant consolidation,
which has resulted in many store closings, thus negatively impacting
Nautica. An up and coming Sportswear brand is John
Varvatos.

VF is comprised of 54,200 employees world wide, with 20,000 in the
United States alone. The Board of Directors consists of 13 members and
an Operating Committee with 12 members. The five different committees
within the Operating Committee are: Audit Committee, Executive
Committee, Finance Committee, Nominating and Governance Committee, and
the Compensation Committee. Employee relations are considered to be
good, which could have been one of the many factors driving such a
strong performance throughout 2007.

VF’s strong performance can also be attributed to its
customers. Their products are primarily sold through specialty stores,
department store, national chains and mass merchants. Some of their
larger customers include Kohl’s, Macy’s, J.C. Penney,
Sears, Target, and Wal-Mart. Sales to Wal-Mart, their largest
customer, totaled 12% of Total Revues and the majority of those sales
were in the Jeanswear Coalition. (Doesn’t discuss specific
competitors)

VF’s highlights reported in the 2007 financial statement:
• Revenues, Income, Earnings per Share, and Cash provided by
Operating Activities were each at record levels.
• Formed a new coalition – Contemporary Brands –
consisting of 7 For All Mankind and Lucy Activewear,
but sold the women’s intimate apparel business for $348.7
million in cash.
• The quarterly dividend rate increased form $0.55 to $0.58 per
share.

VF’s Long-Term Financial Targets:
• Revenue grown of 8% to 10% per year
• Operating income of 15% of revenues
• Earnings per share growth of 10% to 11% per year
• Return on invested capital of 17%
• Debt to capital of less than 40%
• Dividend payout ratio of 40%

VF’s Strategic Objectives:
• Build more global, growing lifestyle brands
• Expand our share with winning customers
• Stretch brands to new geographies
• Expand our direct-to-consumer business
• Fuel the growth
• Build new grown enablers

(Do we need to add this here or do we have this incorporated in the
rest of the project?)
Finally is the basis of presentation (methods of calculations) for the
financial statement. VF operates and reports using a fiscal year
ending on December 31, 2007 of each year. Inventories recorded as
having used the FIFO method. Their method for revenue recognition is
recognized when:
I. contract or arrangement of sale
II. the sales price is fixed/determinable
III. title and the risks of ownership have been transferred to the
customer
IV. collection of the receivable is reasonably assured.
