Matching Data
=============

Continuous Variables
Service times (in seconds)
Improvements scores (between 0 and 100)
Electricity consumption (in MWH)
Production levels (in $)

Categorical Variables
Quality scores (bad, fair, good)
Supplier (supplier A, supplier B, etc.)
Treatment (standard or new)
Carpet type (nylon, polyester, etc.)

                           Two-Sample Tests

You have a measurement variable which is continuous, and a categorical
variable with two values.
Objective: to see whether and how the measurement variable is
different for the two groups.

Simple example: you are measuring height (the continuous measurement
variable) for people who are either male or female (gender is the
categorical variable with two values).
The objective is to compare heights of males with heights of females.

Another example: you are measuring improvement scores for acrophobia
(the continuous measurement variable) for patients who had either the
standard treatment or the new treatment (treatment type is the
categorical variable with two levels).
The objective is to see which treatment method gives the best
improvement scores.

In your Minitab worksheet, your data is arranged in two columns.
It may be paired (e.g. open up DS 9.2.1 Production Line Assembly
Methods) or it may be unpaired (e.g. open up DS 9.6.4 Consumer
Complaints Division Reorganization).
(Note: if you have unpaired data it may be stacked – see Minitab
analysis for two-sample tests)

                   The Analysis of Variance (ANOVA)

This is similar to two-sample tests, except now there are three or
more groups being compared.
So, you have a measurement variable which is continuous, and a
categorical variable with three or more values.
Objective: to see whether and how the measurement variable is
different for the various groups.

Simple example: you are measuring weight at six months (the continuous
measurement variable) for babies who are either drinking milk formula
1, milk formula 2, or milk formula 3 (milk formula type is the
categorical variable with three values).
The objective is to compare weights for the different milk formula
types.

Another example: you are measuring quality scores (the continuous
measurement variable) for six different carpet types (carpet type is
the categorical variable with six levels).
The objective is to see which carpet types give the best quality
scores.

In your Minitab worksheet, your data will be arranged in a series of
columns (e.g. open up DS 11.1.4 Keyboard Layout Designs).
(Note: alternatively, your data may be stacked – see Minitab
analysis for ANOVA)

                       Simple Linear Regression

You have two continuous variables which are paired together, so that
you would want to view the data with a scatter plot. Each dot on the
scatter plot is an “experimental unit.”
Objective: to see whether there is any evidence that the two variables
are related, and if so, to use one variable to predict the other.

Simple example: you are measuring the heights of children (one
continuous variable) together with their ages (the other continuous
variable). Each child measured is an “experimental unit.”
The objective is to model how heights change with age.

Another example: you are measuring electricity consumption for a
factory (one continuous variable) together with production level (the
other continuous variable).
The calendar months are the “experimental units.”
The objective is to use production level to predict electricity
consumption.

In your Minitab worksheet, your data is arranged in two columns (e.g.
open up DS 12.11.10 Downloading Computer Files).

                      Multiple Linear Regression

Multiple linear regression is an extension of simple linear regression
where there is again one continuous output variable, but there are
more than one input variables.
Objective: to see how the set of input variables can be used to
model/predict the single output variable.
The input variables are continuous variables, except that “dummy
variables” may be used to model simple categorical variables.

Simple example: you are measuring the unloading time of a truck (one
continuous output variable) and the objective is to see how it depends
upon the volume and the weight of the load (which are two continuous
input variables) together with whether it is the day or night shift (a
categorical input variable that is coded as a dummy variable).

Another example: you are measuring electricity consumption for a
factory (one continuous output variable) and the objective is to see
how it depends upon the production level and cooling requirements
(which are two continuous input variables).
The calendar months are the “experimental units.”

In your Minitab worksheet, your data is arranged in a set of columns
(e.g. open up Fig 13.11 Supermarket Deliveries).
