May 2008
========

5/4

"Open Thou mine eyes, that I may behold wondrous things out of Thy
[universe]." Psalm 119:18

I switched law to universe because I want God to expand my awareness.
I want to notice things that I have never yet to have seen. God is so
broad and huge even in the smallest places.

I was in PHX w/ Jeremy for AMB3R and his girlfriend was a Ph.D. in
chemistry and some other brilliant sciences. I picked one of her books
on the shelf that was an intro to quantum theory and it just opened my
eyes to another topic of God and His vastness. I can't even comprehend
how big God is. By seeing new areas of `common' topics, I am just
amazed that He holds it all together.

I am humbled and dumbfounded.
My prayer is not for glorious, but to discover the glorious He has set
in around me. As if I need to actually acquire the taste for glory.
For all things He has done are glorious.
-

5/5

We just found out that Bekah is 6 weeks pregnant! Wow! that is now 3
babies for the Woodalls in 2008! What a wild thought to be starting
this next chapter of life together.
Lord I pray a blessing on their lives and the health of their baby.
Would You pave the way for them and prepare their hearts and lives to
walk in Your ways.
-
5/8
There is so much going on right now. I like the adventure and I'm
trying not to fall prey to a mind of fear.
"Make me to understand the way of Thy precepts: so shall I talk of the
wonderous works." Psalm 119:27
- I am born in ignorance and uncertainty. I need Jesus and His Life to
live and experience what I'm longing to. Happiness, Adventure,
Freedom, and Influence.

Danae and I are working through our intimacy issues. I can't tell how
much of it I am to blame for. I readily admit that I am not the most
feeling and physical person. I don't entirely know why, but I'm asking
the Lord to draw us close.

I feel like I'm beginning to see the underlying difference b/n the two
approaches to God. There is the attempt to please God and show Him our
value through our own strength. Then there is the view that we are
only capable by what He does in and through us.
The psalmist David was still living pre-spirit and was not able to
rest in the gift of the Spirit as we are. Something to consider when
reading and meditating on scripture.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

5/11
I am praying for things that I cannot fix or change about myself.
Christ in me is the power and source.
These times are challenging. My prayer is for Courage to walk in
Christ in His faith and truth. That I may rest in His provision as we
fight time, waste, finances, job uncertainties, business
establishment, and more.
"teach me, O LORD, the way of Thy [Rest]; and I shall [abide there]
until the end." psalm 119:33
- I love the scriptures but I happen to believe that the Spirit is who
sets me in the holy and righteous ways of Christ, not my own efforts
toward the law.
"Behold I have longed, after Thy [Life]: Quicken me in Thy
righteousness." v. 40
-
5/12
I'm beginning to easily see the contrast b/n the two laws in
scripture. The law of death, and the law of Life. The law of death was
brought first to give us a contrast. A realization of our lack of
power or ability to save ourselves.
Psalm 119 seems to be one of the most clear examples of a person who
wants to follow the law. King David prays and asks over and over for
favor because of his love for the law. So shall I keep Thy law
continually for ever and ever. psalm 119:44

Where as Paul plays an imporatant role in this journey b/c of his
perspective to reveal later that the law was brought to show us what
we couldn't do. David himself was guilty of adultery, murder, and
other sins.

> "Who also hath made us able ministers of the new testament; not of
the letter, but of the Spirit: for the letter killeth, but the Spirit
giveth Life." II Cor 3:6

It often times feels like I'm living in the Matrix. Where my Christian
brothers and sisters are sitting in the Law, trying to be good. It
seems so easy to comprehend the letter unto death and then set out to
do it - Not realizing that the results are the same. Failure or self
righteousness.
The Lord is revealing to me this deeper truth that He is the one
working to change me and make me alive in Him. That is the only way to
grow.
-
5/14

Ministry is an issue of the heart. An outpouring of Christ onto
others.
This is where my faith lacks. While we are committed to tithe, I don't
know that it's in the right spirit. I do it b/c I feel I'm supposed to
in order to keep my eyes focused on the reality that God alone is the
one providing.
I am so concerned with our little funds making it the month that I
fret giving more than the minimum tithe to help others. I don't like
that. Jesus, I pray Your Spirit of Generosity would influence my life.
You have permission to quicken my spirit and unite it with Yours.

Then when I survey the scene of friends and peers, I see we're all
pretty much in this same situation more or less. Not sure how to pay
for it all, what to do for work, etc. I don't know if this is one of
the bittersweet parts to living in such a blessed country. Thank You
Lord for this Country!

When I am financially set I Will:

  * Schedule qtrly getaways with Danae
  * Plan 2 - week vacations
  * New Wardrobe
  * Have friends over more often for Dinner
  * Take people out for Dinner
  * Live the 7 Natural Laws more completely
  * Invest in the stock market
  * Organize a local ministry - Depending on Need
  * Get out of debt!
  * Setup gifts and notes for Danae
  * Look into Office

So the question is why does Money Need to be there? Don't I know that
there are additional issues that come with a new financial situation?

What are the benefits of not having money?

  * Simple life
  * Keeps me hungry in several ways
  * Keeps me from an arrival mentality

"Thy Statutes have been my songs in the house of my pilgrimage." Psalm
119:54

LORD, I pray that I remember that this is a journey of revelation of
Christ, my Life, and You the one and only True God. Let the concept of
Getting ahead be removed far from me. For this is life, and this is
where You want us to be. May I learn to live in and embrace this
moment.

--
5/19
Spent the last few mornings reading and journaling outside. I Love
Denver!

I want to prepare for my son's arrival. Not really sure how to do
that. I think I just want to be deliberate.

Yesterday when I was thinking about goals, I put that I want to start
a church, a gathering of Christians. I feel like the name gathering is
significant because that's what it is. We are gathering together to
Discover Christ - and Worship Him in Spirit and truth.
I don't know much other than to write it down and wait and see what
the Lord does.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

5/28
Aaron Peterson was here the past 4 days. While it was great to see
him, I can see that we're at different stages in life. I am gearing up
more and more for my responsibilities and it seems that he's still
trying to live as light and as care free as possible. I know that's
the way of the single man. It's a totally different mentality. I
suppose it was good for me to see the kind of person I could be if I
hadn't gotten married.

Marriage is a wonderful way that God makes a man. For I need the Lord
and His provision and guidance when I have others who are following.
I'm excited to see the Lord provide even more when our Son is born. I
believe God will provide even more for the three of us.

"I know, O LORD, that Thy Judgments are right, and that Thou in they
faithfulness hast afflicted me." Ps 119:75

I believe this for my life. I believe that the last 10 years have been
of such growth and development. Maturity and realization of Christ, my
Life and the one who is at work in me. I believe that the challenges
and trials have worked unto my character. That Christ is using all
these things together for good and unto his glory.

We are less than 2 months away from our son being born. We are less
than 3 months away from me starting school. There are some life
changing events about to take place. Lord would You go before us and
prepare the path. Would You lead us in the way with baby and financial
preparation. Would You allow me to love and serve Danae that she knows
I have love in my heart for her.
With school prep too, I pray for Your wisdom to show up with loans,
living, balance, and more. I need You to be the discerner and
scheduler of my time and focus.

"Let Thy tender mercies come unto me, that I may live: For Thy [life
and glory] is my delight." v.77

This life is temporary - But I want to do so much still. I want to see
the sights and show my family a life of adventure. I want to get
involved in a work that will give back and help others. I want to
provide a domain that Danae can nest and build. I can only experience
those things if God places His gracious hand of mercy and abundance. I
ask that He build the house of marriage, work, influence, and
abundance. That we may live the abundant life and be stewards of the
day.
-
5/29
There are phrases and analogies that really resonate with me for a
period of week or two. They turn into prayers that I hold onto.
The latest of these is a prayer for the Lord to build our house. That
unless He builds our house, we are laboring in vain. I don't want to
waste time wandering in the wilderness longer than I have to.
I pray God would build our house of Marriage. That Danae and I would
be united unto His Glory. That our love and service to and of one
another is a pure reflection of Christ in us both.
I see the realities of building a business. That here too, unless the
Lord brings us ways to survive, we won't. We need His guidance and
direction to be established on wisdom and sales!
Father that You would lead us in the way we should go with our
finances and promotion. That You would establish us as a $25 million
business with flow and infrastructure.
"Quicken [us] after Thy loving kindness; so shall we [live] the
testimonies of Thy mouth" Psalm 119:88

I have been thinking about my finances lately. How much I feel like
I'm walking the fine line unto `bankruptcy'. But I have to surrender
that too. I am so scarred to just let go and I don't know how to act
or behave with Danae. This is a place Father I need You to show me
Your Life. Do I lay off or lay on? I don't know and I am Okay with You
taking this part of our life over.
