August 2008
===========

8/5

First Journal Entry of August.
Oscar was born 7/28. I wrote of it briefly in my sketch book:

> 8/1 This is my first writing since having my Son. Oscar John David
Woodall. Words cannot accurately describe what it's like to have a
child. I coan only imagine the intimacy Danae must feel.
We're tired, but unlike any tired in that we still want to stay up and
be with him.
I find that mysterious relationship to my heavenly Father to be so
amazing. My heart cringes when Oscar cries for a diaper change. I
can't imagine giving up my son that others might live.

It was definitly a day to remember. Surreal.

I should add that the next morning I went home to walk the dogs, only
to discover that we had been robbed that night! Unbelivable timing. We
certainly have questions and wonder if it was someone that knew we
would be gone.
While I was cleaning the house and waiting for the cops to come, I
started praying. I was reminded of the story Mike Wells tells of
blessing American Airlines when they destroy his baggage.
I started to pray for our thieves. I forgave them. I blessed them and
their families. I prayed for their financial growth, wealth and
health.
The Spirit replaced my anger and bitterness with His mysterious peace.

We did not expect any kind of financial support or compensation, but
we have been given money from all over. Mike Elmer's brother, who I
don't even know, gave us $1,000!
Chip and Jackie Coors also overwhelmed us with $500!
It's amazing, it's close to $3200 so far and there are rumors more is
coming!
The Longs gave us a great TV.

We see the faithfulness of the LORD and we are clearly taken care of
by Him.
-
8/7

With as much going on and my schedule changing due to busy and
packed... I find myself consumed with the moment. It's great to know
that this is just a `room' where we learn life's most important topic.
That HE alone is God. He alone holds all power. He is the One who
holds our family, possessions, and success.
The wonderful news is we take neither wealth or debts with us into
true eternity. This place is an exhibition match compared to when
true, eternal life starts.

Lord, we love You and we thank You for the blessings and miracles You
have shown us on this temporary earth. You are alive and well and You
are causing all things to work together for good. I love the work You
have put me in and what we're doing.
Let me remember that business is a game and this country You have
blessed is such a tremendous safety net that I have no excuse to try
to go big.
-

8/11

There is a constant drive to see the big picture in every area of
life. Spiritually, I want to know answers to big questions.
Professionally, I want to get to the core root of what we're trying to
do and build and focus on those crucial tasks. I see my limited power
and influence (Non-existent really) and I want to make the most of
life.

Lord, what would You have me to see? Would You lead me in
righteousness and truth.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

8/21

On a scale of 1 - 10. Life feels like a 9.5 right now. I feel totally
blessed and this is a sweet spot I haven't felt in a while.
With Oscar's birth, Living in Denver, Starting Grad school in 2 weeks,
AMB3R starting to come together, and great friends who we're doing
life with here.

That's it!

----------------------------------------------------------------------

8/25

My intention to move to Denver and attend DU started with a hard
search for the best Real Estate Development program. After working it
for the last few months, as already stated, I've change course.

That has broght on new thoughts of wondering if DU is the best school
for a general MBA. As I started to review the rankings and see how it
stacked against other schools, I started to realize that we didn't
even rank!
The challenge for me with that is that I'm looking to have the MBA
give me some substantial exposure, especially for the amount of time
and financial investment involved.

I started thinking this morning if I should try to go to a top school,
like Harvard.
The more I thought about that, I'm starting to wonder if I would start
with the MS here, then try to get the MBA from a top ranked school.

It's wild how life works... I can't shake this long term perspective.
I am here in Denver and I'm wondering if I should go to Harvard
Business School.

My biggest Drawback I feel is my low GMAT score so I'll definately
have to retake that one. There is a prep course that is offered, but
right now I'm waitlisted. I wonder if that would be what I should
do...

"A man plans his ways, but the Lord directs his steps."
