January 2009
============

1/2 Denver, CO

I'm sitting in my bed after the whirlwind December. Crazy times! I'm
still reeling from it all. The finance class in New York, the school
road trip, and family time for the holidays.
I'm drained to the point of sadness. I miss Danae and she doesn't get
back until 1/11. We had that plan based on the idea that I would be
filling out all kinds of applications this week.

To top all that off, I got an email while at my families that my home
buyers bailed on us because they lost their jobs.

Man these times are tight for finances. We owe several medical bills
from Oscar, probably close to $3,000 already. I heard the Lord tell me
that it's His equity and also His debt. I am His and I can only trust
that He has a wonderful plan for us.

I'm trying to wrap my head around what I learned about myself and what
it means for my family. I have so much on my mind right now...

Priorities
School
Paying the bills
home life
romancing Danae
GMAT
Becoming a Saver

Interests
Daniels Consulting & Strategy Group
Entrepreneurs in Action (Binka Brew)
Monday night small group
Working with Ouray to raise some cash
Working with Career services
Mentor Program
Jimmy and Danny

Questions
How are we going to cover all these bills?
What should I be thinking about in terms of my career?
Should I still be as aggressive about another MBA program?
What are my skills?
What should my next steps be?
What should remain as priorities and what should take a backseat?
How much networking and what's the best networking I should do at DU?

Lord, I love You and worship You. You are my Father, shield, and
provider. I am so blessed and I thank You for putting some activity
back into our lives. The last 4 years of being disconnected from most
everything was wonderful for the heart and soul. I come before You
know requesting Mercy and Grace on our time and finances. Lord, I need
You and I know You are here with me. Let Danae, Oscar, and I stand on
Your firm foundation. You are our rock. You are our salvation. You are
the Lord supreme.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

1/3

I'm sitting down for a quiet time. It's been so long since I've done
this it feels rusty. While the bible is not the source of life, the
Lord uses it and pray to speak. Revealing truths and insights about
life and myself.

I want to return to a sense of balance in life that I may be able to
maintain a solid head about the many changes and challenges happening.
I know that the LORD is GOD and Even in this He is Lord supreme.

My heart's desire is to be the man and provider in the way that the
Lord has wired me. I feel He has given me great natural resources and
when I see what men of less fortune have done, I just lay my life as
one who is given much and responsible for much more. I don't know if
it works as linear as that, but I want to surrender all of who I am to
the mission of experiencing the fullness of Christ. Him revealed in
and through me. Lord, that You are glorified in my heart and life.
That my wife is honored and cared for emotionally as well as
physically. That I may be the father to Oscar as You have blessed me
with such a supportive father, family, and wife.

I have delayed my application process to the other MBA programs from
2009, to 2010. Primarily due to my poor GMAT score. I need in the high
600 to be considered for a top 10 and it's going to take a slow and
steady study regimen to make that happen. It's still a huge task, the
GMAT, and the idea of attending a top tier program. However, that is
the primary focus of mine in 2009.

2009
GMAT
Grad School Applications pristine!
DU squeezed out!
AMB3R - $2M in sales
Reinvent ourselves as Savers
Serve all of Danae's needs
Walking in Balance - Body, Mind, Soul
Develop and define my extracurricular activities

I'm also wondering what am I aiming for. I feel that the combination
of church clothes which experienced limited success, but ultimately
failing due to poor management, then the experience of Futura being a
dead end job was about seven years of challenges and internal
development. However, it left me frail as far as networks go. I had to
dig within and develop a strong pro-active way of life to get anything
done. That has built to a place where I find great opportunities when
I partner with others who are willing to work hard to achieve a goal.
I see these programs as places to find a vast amount of future
business partners to work toward projects to be determined.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

1/4

I feel like I'm the guy sitting in a luxury sports car that is stuck
in the mud. I enjoyed the radio, the heated seats, the videos, and all
the little things that could entertain for a while. I then wanted to
get moving and it took me a while to realize that I'm stuck. I pressed
the gas, turned the wheel, and even tried reverse. Nothing was
working. I then rolled my window down to see if there was anyone
around me who might be able to help me out. I found no one. I enjoyed
some more music and figured time would permit me to become unstuck. I
waited and realized that wasn't the case. I wasn't going anywhere. I
decided that I have to take it up another level. I know I'm destined
for a great many things whether here or in eternity. I take a look at
the resources I've been entrusted with. I don't want to squander them.
I see I was made for more than sitting in the mud. Some people are
content there. Some have made it a home. I am not home in a settled
place. I decided it's time to get my hands dirty, even my clothes if
necessary. I got out of the car and stepped 6 inches into mud. no
wonder I'm stuck. I manage my way to get a few feet away from the car
to survey the situation. While I am not standing on firm ground, my
car is still stuck. I need help. I look forward and back on the windy
road but not much can be seen around the bends. It's a coin toss
between forward and back. I decide to go back assuming there are
probably places I can talk to about my situation and what is ahead of
me. I'm pleasantly surprised to find that halfway around the last bend
there is actually a local sitting on a chair in the rock. He lends me
some much needed advice about where I'm walking to and says I'm on the
right path. As I head down I realize that it isn't mud that I was in,
but icy snow. The curb puts me face first toward a warm sun. My wet
pants begin to dry and I'm not as dirty as I thought. I am looking
forward to reaching the town. As I'm walking I'm noticing more about
the environment I'm passing and the various comments of the people I
meet. I am encouraged and begin to notice something that my
assumptions about myself feel accurate. I wonder how I got stuck in
the mud around that bend. I like the walk. The scenery is beautiful
and I'm enjoying the different perspectives and time to process those
small things I missed in my car.
When I get to town, I realize that I did not have the proper training
to handle a vehicle of that magnitude. There are several reasons but
none that cannot be overcome. I decide to take a course from a skilled
driver who has owned several of the same model. I enjoy the time and
the season I'm there. I didn't realize that while I was in learning, a
few of my new found friends heard about my car up the road and decided
to help me out. They suprised me the day I planned to leave with my
car cleaned, and tuned up. I couldn't believe it. They are friends for
life.
While it's true the road I set out on is repeated, it's only for a
brief time. I have learned who I am, how my car works, and how to run
it to it's full potential. I am looking forward to the bends and turns
and lending a hand to those I meet on the journey.
I love road trips.
-
1/5

First day of class for Winter term. Up at 4:30 am and still it feels
like I'm behind. When I think about it, I would prefer a surplus of
activity compared to a deficit at this stage of life. I am in the
warrior stage. I am fighting for my life, my wife, my career, my
family, all these battle fronts. I'd wish to have someone else
involved to coach me along the way. Is David McDaniel all I need here?
Should I look to other mentors? Maybe I can reconnect with Denise.
I'd like to start studying the Word again. Lord, what would You like
to venture out on?
I was thinking this morning about the wonderful stories of huge odds
the Lord overcame on this side of eternity. Jerrico, Goliath, the Red
Sea

> He divided the sea, and caused them to pass through; and He made the
waters to stand as an heap. Ps 78:13

The Lord reminded me last week that if I had surplus it would be His.
He so lovingly asked me why "Zero" was a transfer point. If the equity
is His, why wouldn't the debt be as well? That was a huge relief.
Lord, I would gladly trade all my future income to You for deliverance
from this debt load. Deliver us in Your mercy and power. You alone
hold the wealth in these times of lack. I hold no claims to any future
income. All is Yours to do with what You wish. No claims on my part
for homes, vacations, luxuries, or dinners. All belongs to You.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

1/7/9

I got a call yesterday from Jon Boris, the CEO of Ouray sportswear. He
is a Private Equity guy that bought a sportswear tees and hoodies
company out of bankruptcy and is trying to turn it around. He inquired
to see if I'd be interested in a roll to help run their creative
department. I told him I'd hear the offer.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

1/9

Ouray wants me to do a full time position. don't know that I see that
one happening with the current schedule. Lord, I surrender my life.
You are the Life and the One who leads and sustains us. We have made
it this far with some bumps and bruises but I trust You are forming
Christ in me. I am not interested in a job. I want to experience life
at it's fullest and yet I acknowledge that I do not know the way in
which I should walk. Is this the kind of opportunity I should take? I
will wait on You.

We are working through trying to sell our house after the first people
had to bail.

I received word yesterday that AMB3R did abotu $250,000 in sales in
2008. That's about 9 months worth, and a Net Income of about 20%!
Jeremy will be here next week. Lord, I surrender this business and ask
that You establish it in equity and efficiency.

I feel like I'm in a warrior stage on multiple fronts. Home, Finances,
school studies, future path, AMB3R. While I love it, the tendency is
for fear to set in and make me fret. Not so. Lord, I invite out all
fear, worry, and doubt. I invite in Jesus Christ today. I accept Him
as my Lord and savior.
-

1/11

The last few days have been draining. All that is needed and the scare
resources required to manage it all. I am fighting the feelings of
being overwhelmed. Danae comes home today, Ouray wants to interview
tomorrow, and Jeremy comes in on Tuesday.

Our home and finances are so shaky with my only income coming in from
AMB3R. School is turning out to require a lot of my time. And I'm
still trying to find the time to work on GMAT.

I'm still wondering about OURAY. If I should take that to let AMB3R
get some traction and not be as weighted with paying my complete
income.

Lord, I love that I'm living through these times. I love that I am
engaged with Life. My desire is for You to be revealed in and through
me. Lord Jesus, may I experience Your salvation, mercy, and provision
in times as these. Let me know the way in which I should walk.

The fears that I'm fighting:
- Running out of money
- Not having time to work on GMAT
- Not applying to another school
- Making Danae sad
- Not performing well in school
- Not taking advantage of the program that I've paid for
- 904 jones not selling

Let me be reminded that this first week back has been a big adjustment
back into school and a mental exercise after touring the country
looking for other programs. Being away from home for 3 weeks causes
several things to be backed up.

These times are trying but not in a way that I don't want to
experience. I thank the Lord for allowing 2008 to be a healing year.
One where life was not as challenged with finances, work, or schedule.
While I worked hard at GMAT and such I found time healed me. Now as
entering 2009, there is so much going on and I am trying to keep my
wits about me. We're only 11 days into it but it feels booked until
October!

I am reminded that the Lord wanted the Jews to eat daily manna. A
daily walk with the Lord, nothing more. I acknowledge that my
mentality is to acquire enough manna to last a significant portion of
my life. I want to let that go. I only need bread for the day.

_Lord, what then should I live and think like moving forward? How then
should I live? I would ask that You lead me in the next steps and
actions. Teach me how to work with my limited time. I know You are
here with me and You see what needs to be done. Show me how I may be
able to succeed in life.

1. GMAT
2. DU
3. AMB3R
4. Home life in order
5. Personal body, soul, mind.

Lord thank you for this time to sit and think... Unto Your Glory

----------------------------------------------------------------------

1/12

One of the reasons I feel that I can't live as a missionary or do a
lifestyle like Mike Wells is because I don't know how Danae could
handle it. The travel and the finances would get to her. I feel I'm
working toward a safe home for her. I want that and I want to lose
myself in Christ. I want to serve others needs above my own. Curious,
by doing school and wanting work to be along the lines of my skillset,
is that serving my own needs? I am daily hashing out who I am and
discovering myself.

I'm not exactly sure what the specifics are of what I can or should do
after school. I keep assuming consulting is the way to go after school
to maintain a broad exposure after spending 10 years in a hole. I am
in the "school" mode right now and I want to make the most of it.
While I think DU is great and I love Denver, I am relinquishing my
rights to pick where and how to live. I don't want to live in Atlanta,
however the reality is if I'm working like I want to be, I won't be
enjoying the scenery much other than on vacation. I want to obtain a
national degree so that I can be versatile across this country. I want
to work in consulting so that I can also know the ins and outs of
multiple companies I would work on. I feel my biggest obsticle to this
is the GMAT. I am praying that I have enough time to add those 5-8
hours a week of study.

My current thought is that I would apply to four schools instead of 7.
Harvard, Booth, Cornell, and Vanderbilt. They are all top schools and
if they were to work out, then we'd move and I'd determine then what
to do with AMB3R if it wasn't already determined.

Let me also say, at least to remind myself, that I am laying this
school chase out as a case of stewardship as well. That I feel the
Lord has blessed me with many talents and opportunities and I do not
want to squander them. I will fight as hard and as long as I know how
but if it is not in the Lord's will for any of these things to
materialize, then I can rest assured that I have done all the Lord has
asked. He is the one who raises and lowers, opens and closes. Lord, it
is up to You if and when I go to another program.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

1/13

I'm tired. Oscar kept us up last night and the heat was up to high.
Makes me unmotivated...

Met with Jon and Ryan of Ouray yesterday to discuss the idea of me
being the manager of the creative department. While there would be
some adjustments, it feels essentially like what I've been doing and
preparing for over the last 10 years of my life.
We didn't get to specifics on compensation, but I feel there would
need to be some big incentives for me to abandon my current goals and
pursuits for this job.

I am designing an Ad for a youth specialties program that's going to
go to 20,000 youth workers. I don't know what kind of response it will
draw but I'm hoping to give us a nice boost of business. If 1%
contact, that's 200 people. We did about 120 orders last year so It
would be pretty incredible to get a response of at least that.

Lord, I don't know what this next step of life looks like but I still
need You to direct my steps. I GMAT even possible, should I stay with
DU, what do I do about Danae (other than rest that You care for her)

----------------------------------------------------------------------

1/15
I submitted 17 questions to Ouray yesterday about the position they
offered. I'm curious how they'll respond. They had to do with
scenarios of when things go wrong. I also couldn't wait any longer to
ask what kind of cold hard cash are they talking about! I expect to
hear from them in a week or two.

Jeremy arrived into CO last night. I haven't seen him yet but we are
looking for apartments today for him to live and us to work out of.

School is going well. 2 of the 3 classes I'm taking are pretty easy
(ethics and multi-national finance) The one that is interesting is my
managerial finance class. I'm finally learning some great and useful
content!

----------------------------------------------------------------------

1/17

Praise the Lord we found a place for Jeremy and AMB3R office! It's
about a mile and a half from my house which is awesome. It is a small,
kind of dingy 1 bedroom apartment for $550 a month. We had to sign a
year lease, but we'll see how things go. Thank You Lord for taking
care of us. Sometimes I feel like in situations like those, the whole
thing could derail and go on for weeks and be just awful. I think of
the way the rest of the world lives and just marvel at how blessed I
feel to live in this country with all it's challenges and
difficulties. We live in an amazing time.

I am scheduled to meet with Ouray this Thursday to talk about the
position. I'm pretty sure I'll take most anything. I am so ready for
some financial margin in my life. I acknowledge that we don't manage
that well, but I feel it's always barely enough to cover all that's
needed.

The Lord is good. I am so blessed and I want my life to be a sacrifice
unto Your will Lord.

I can't shake this realization of Globalization. How the rest of the
world lives. Lord, put me at rest that this is how it's to be and that
those who are out and suffering have You as their foundation. That
they don't have to walk alone in a wicked world, but that You are
their defense.
-

1/18

Just dropped Chad and Sam off at the airport. It's been 5 weeks since
we've had a fairly normal home life. It's going to be nice to get back
to a routine. I had a few heart to hearts with Chad. I hope he wakes
up and starts to do something with his life. He is 22, unemployed and
living with his parents. He needs to get out of Naples.
-

1/19

Trust in the Lord with all your hear, and lean not on your own
understanding. In all ways acknowledge Him, and He will direct your
paths.

What is my current understanding:
1. We're having big issues with 904 Jones and we want to sell it.
2. Medical bills are due.
3. AMB3R has potential, but we're also getting close to short on cash.
We need some sales!
4. Ouray Sportswear is courting me.
5. I want to go to a top 5 MBA program.
6. I have not been taking care of my physical body like I want.
7. DU is good, but I want more of a challenge.
8. The GMAT is a nasty beast I need to conquer.

_Lord, this appears to be the focus of our life lately. I want my
focus to be You as You carry us through the ups and downs of life. I
consider myself so blessed and fortunate to live in this day, nation,
and the natural resources You've blessed me with. I want to be a
faithful steward of all You have entrusted. First to my wife,
children, extended family, community, country and world. I do not know
what You want for me or from me but I want to remain ready for the
call.

Is it possible that petty fears like a bad credit score keep us from
engaging? My experience was that I maxed out my credit and
opportunities to the point where I had no more options. I think of
trying to get involved with world vision, the music industry, apparel,
christian clothing, all attempts based on a youthful mentality, but I
gave it my best to blend ministry with business. I can still see the
exact spot I was standing when I felt the Lord whisper in my ear that
He had called me into business. I spent the last 8 years trying to
make it happen only to fail miserably with church clothes and futura.
Church clothes was as much a spiritual lesson as it was a business
one.

If I sit and think about how I might be able to get involved, I
consider what other programs are in need of assistance. What issues
are important to me? What issues are important to You? What have You
called me to?
When I think of my natural line - I desire to see people's situations
improved. That they are fully realizing what they have, which
ironically uncovers our need for God and a big Faith in You.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

1/22

I'm still wobbling. I am trying to get Jeremey settled, 904 Jones
figured out, and our home finances. There are some small challenges
with School, but these outside ones are still the ones bothering me.

Lord, my desire is to align with my New Nature. The nature that has
converted to a desire to obey, sacrifice and die. That lives not in
fear, but in recognition that I serve a God. Let these truths drop
into my heart. Let them take root. Let me be reminded that this world
in all of it's challenges is designed to bring me to the end of
myself. That I have no power in me, but the power of Jesus Christ.
Lord these days. these times of trials. they are a season that will
pass. You can do more in a day than i can in one thousand years. This
is not my home. I pray for clarity in this time. That I may focus on
the things that are top priority. Lord, as I feel I am transitioning
into a manager, that You would be the one to lead me and teach me in
this leadership role.

Lord, I feel a growing weight of responsibility the more I realize
just how wealthy I am as a white, male, american with an education,
health, and stature. Lord, I count these things as talents you have
entrusted me with. I have no idea how to use them, but I am here. My
eyes are open to the world's poverty and how "middle class" is
farthest thing from the truth. We are royalty even on this fallen
earth. While I have things that entangle me, I ask that you would help
- do overcome those and that we may be available for the call. I am
not all business for money sake, I want to complete the debts I owe
and be totally prepared and not distracted. However, I know that you
could solve those debts in a flash, so I must believe that this is a
necessary part of the journey you have us on. The nitty gritty that I
may not / do not see that you know we need. May I let my guard down
and love my wife.

For Thou art with me.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

1/24

I spent the entire day yesterday meeting with the Ouray VP's of Sales,
Marketing, Production, and HR. Nice guys and I feel like we had some
good chemistry. They want me to run their creative department but I am
still processing it. I see it taking a long time to develop and I am
just not sure if I am ready to get off the season of preparation of
school and my current goal to attend a top MBA program. I like Ryan
and Jon, the two owners and I want to be doing what they are doing. I
feel the only difference is they learned the most difficult and
valuable skills of the financial management and models that I am
trying to learn. Those are key and that is what school will teach me.

When it rains it pours... Our house at 904 Jones is just taking a
beating. First, the people who were to buy it left and thankfully we
were able to cover January's Payment. Then the people who were
interested in buying didn't want to pay what we wanted to sell it for.
Then the pipes freeze, then we find out that the leaking pipes are
from a sewage line, not the roof leak. Then we find out that our real
estate agent, who has her house next door, is trying to sell hers for
$47,000 less than ours. Then we find out that the insurance won't
cover the water leak pipes. It's 1/24 and we were hoping to have it
ready to sell/rent by 2/1 which is not going to happen.

Lord, what is going on with this house? We beg for Your Mercy. What
should we do? Please do something to release us from this bondage.

While I love Denver and this area I am coming to accept that I need to
relocate near family for Danae. Especially if I am going to be
pursuing these business ventures. Atlanta is a big city and there is a
lot of activity going on there. I would hope I could make it into
something cool down there.

One of the other things I was thinking about was the my view of how
life works. I am willing to recognize that I have an anxiousness about
myself to make some things happen. Lord, may You be glorified in every
day of my life.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

1/25

I want to purge out all the things in my soul that are cancerous. I
want to walk on the mountain tops of righteousness. I want the Lord
Jesus to live His glory through me. Jesus I invite you in. I want to
make even more room for You by inviting out the fear, worry, and doubt
that has taken root in my soul. Lord, clean it out.

I find it bizarre how I am active in the `business' world, but I
haven't had a real corporate job.. ever. I feel like I'm still
preparing for a bigger role. As observing Ryan and Jon at Ouray. It
appears that they knew how to get into the company, but not as much
how to turn it around. They knew the financial requirements to
purchase the company, but having it managed effectively, it appears
they are trying to figure that out.

You are the only One with glory. You are the One with the power. You
call what you alone posses "glory". I posses none and generate none. I
hold Your glory. Lord, I ask for Your Mercy today. That I may love and
serve Danae in Christ. Lord, I love her and I want to serve her. I
align with the Spirit in me that is made to serve. Is made to die.
Lord, my old nature is a phantom of deception. I am a new creation and
I want to put on that Life. Your Life. I want to live in the mind of
Christ. I want You to move forward and me to disappear. I am not the
focus. Jesus is the focus. I give You this day. I give You all the
resources we are in charge of. Lord, bless us. Reveal Yourself in me.
I invite out all the things that are anti-christ and invite in the
Love and death of Christ. May I hold these natural, temporary things
loosely. I ask that your Spirit lead and prepare the way and that we
may be established in Your righteousness and truth. 904 Jones, AMB3R
DU, Home, Finances, GMAT prep, time management, my relationships,
Ouray. I invite in Your peace. Thank You that all things are working
together for good.

"Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life:
and I will dwell in the house of the LORD forever." Ps. 23:6
Lord, we Your children are blessed beyond comprehension. You have
created us and reality demonstrates that You are a loving and amazing
God. My destiny is secured and this world is one You have created for
many reasons. Lord, I want to surrender my life, my family, our dreams
and goals to Your calling. Lord, You have blessed us with so many
worldly resources and I submit them unto Your service and Glory. I ask
mercy on the financial bondage we are in. I ask that You in Your
faithfulness continue to provide as You have up to this point.
I just firmly believe this is the time of life when we have to work.
Not as in doing, but as in You are doing the work and we are
participating in Your plan.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

1/28

Oscar is 6 months old today! I woke up today just `blah'. Lord I don't
want to let the connection break because I am tired. I find it's no
you who disconnects, it's my lazy, and selfishness that moves into me.
Lord I am not worth to be thought of by myself. Lord, You alone are
the life and I am Your Child. I bring to you Danae. I bring to you the
establishment of our marriage. I cannot do this. After watching for 5
years I am learning more about myself and our relationship. I am
discovering that we are not standing on principals. We operate
according to impulse. Of course there are exceptions, Lord I want your
grace to be my voice.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

1/29

Life is kicking my ass!!! I have so much going on and I am trying to
focus on it but I have the financial naggings of 904jones and medical
bills looming over my head. Lord, save us. I want to be able to take
advantage of these school lessons and learnings but I just wonder if I
will have to take a job that ends up making me tap out of school. In
addition, I must confess I am attempting to retake the GMAT. Lord,
should that not be the case?
I am ready to return to Nashville in order to attend Vanderbilt. I
really want to go to Cornell, Chicago, or Harvard... and honestly in
that order. But I want to Trust You. When should I ask my parents for
financial help?
