Proverbs
========

Yea, thou shalt be as he that lieth down in the midst of the sea, or
as he that lieth upon the top of a mast. - Prov 23:34
- there are few benefits from drinking!

"They have struck me," shalt thou say, "and I was not sick! They have
beaten me, and I felt it not! When shall I awake? I will seek it yet
again!" - prov 23: 35
- The potion for those who don't want to be fully present. However,
Life is not soft on those who don't engage. When one loses their edge,
desire, or mission, things get sad real fast.

"Be not thou envious against evil men, neither desire to be with
them."
Prov 24:1
- Wisdom is hearing and taking by faith ideas or instruction that may
not make sense at the time. It's accepting something foreign into my
behavior. I must trust that the Lord will grant me with accurate truth
and lead me away from the darkness and unsatisfying existence.

"For their heart studieth destruction, and their lips talk of
mischief." Prov. 24:2
- Man has been empowered with the ability to do and accomplish. God
has generously given this power to us even if we choose to use it
wickedly. (He's working all things for good!)
But how much more then will a righteous man accomplish who talks
about, then sets out to do those very same things. Victory is
inevitable!

"Through wisdom a house is built, and by understanding it is
established" Prov 24:3
- Lord would you give me wisdom unto the following walks of life, and
then some:

  * Marriage
  * Health
  * Finances
  * Relationships
  * THINKING HUGE!!
  * Dreaming HUGE!
  * Business (Management, production, effectiveness, efficiency)
  * Politics (economy, social, defense, taxes, freedom)

"By knowledge the rooms are filled with all precious and pleasant
riches." Prov 24: 4
Knowledge is found by opening my eyes to my surroundings, having a
students heart, and applying what I'm learning to my life. Rooms can
be more than material;

  * Relational
  * Experiences

"A wise man is strong; yea, a man of knowledge increaseth strength."
Prov. 24:5
LOVE IT!

"For by wise counsel thou shalt make thy war: and in the multitude of
counsellors there is safety" Prov 24:6
- My war is not a violent one, but a competitive one. I want to win in
business, balance, and experience.
h1. Who then are my counsellors?

"Wisdom is too high for a fool; he openeth not his mouth in the gate."
Prov 24:7
-When do I begin to accept that I am wise? In that I can speak, only
because of Your inspiration?

"He that deviseth to do evil shall be called a wicked person."
Prov 24:8
- And the reverse works... He that deviseth to do good shall be called
a
righteous person. May my plans be set to wisdom and righteousness.

"The thinking of foolishness is sin, and the scorner is an abomination
to men." Prov 24:9
There are two ways I see that man practices foolishness:

 1. by his own admission and free will choice to choose the things
    that satisfy his flesh and desire. Those things which are in
    direct opposition of a heart surrendered to the Lord.
 2. by one of youthful ignorance. While this is no excuse it's still a
    sin of omission. This is not a doom and gloom but a reality that
    man is not naturally a saint, but selfish in our birthed nature.
    Thankfully the grace of God covers all sins and He is the one
    drawing and calling us out of both mentailities.
    Father, My prayer is that You continually draw me to Yourself. May
    You have the pleasure of revealing Yourself in and through me in
    all situations and experiences. I know You are the life source and
    the meaning behind it all.

"If thou faint in the day of adversity, thy strength is small." Prov
24:10
Looking at 2008, this is going to be a full year:

  * Baby due in July!
  * Moving to Devner!
  * Start my MBA!
  * Move out of my house to start my rental property investment biz!
  * Building my futureshirts biz on a new and exciting model!

In addition, I'm learning some great topics:

  * FileMaker
  * Ruby on Rails
  * American Government
  * Wood working and home repair
  * How to start a home church

Lord, I have to confess that while these these are exciting, My
strength is non-existent. You are my strength, life, ambition, and
hope of salvation. Deliver me that I may use my freedom for influence
and help of the poor.

"Deliver those who are drawn toward death, And hold back those
stumbling to the slaughter" Prov 24: 11
To what extent do I prevent people from learning? This is my first
instruction on the matter that I'm aware of.
Lord show me Thy ways here...

"if thou sayest, "Behold, we knew it not"--doth not He that pondereth
the heart consider it? And He that keepeth thy soul, doth He not know
it? And shall not He render to every man according to his works?" Prov
24:12
- The concept of knowledge goes both ways here. we are like storage
hard drives, but we are not attached to a database, except thought the
Spirit. The Lord knows what I do and do not know. While I ask and
surrender for an increase in knowledge, wisdom, understanding, and
equity it is the Lord who knows when and how much is necessary.
Lord I pray You have and continue to prepare me in each and every
moment. I'm praying for my return to school that in the class setting
I may be able to grasp these concepts easily so that I can then have
additional capacity for leadership to my peers.

"My son, eat thou honey because it is good, and the honeycomb which is
sweet to thy taste." Prov 24: 13
The pleasures of this world can reveal some important lessons. Life
consists of all things God has created. Lord, I want to know You more.

"Do not lie in wait, O wicked man, against the dwelling of the
righteous; Do not plunder his resting place;" Prov 24:15
- does this mean to keep personal matters apart from business matters?
That I would be considered wicked if I take business to the persons
home?

"For a just man falleth seven times, and riseth up again: But the
wicket shall fall into mischief." Prov 24:16
- Lord, I believe you're doing something wonderful in my life. You are
working all these things for good. I pray You would lead me onto a
firm foundation that glorifies You and brings me into a big room.

"Rejoice not when thine enemy falleth, and let not thine heart be glad
when he stumbleth." Prov 24:17
- I need to forgive Sy. I want to see him left to his own foolish and
deceitful ways.

"Lest the LORD see it, and it displease Him, and He turn away His
wrath from Him." Prov 24:18
- I just finish reading that hardships and troubles are working for
the good and that God is close in those. But that is the very thing I
want the wicked man to endure. I still think of Sy...

"Fret not thyself because of evil men, neither be thou envious at the
wicked;" Prov 24:19
- The reason he says this is because it's exactly what we as people
do. We see the evil man and fear. And we covet the things and
processes of the wicked as if they have the answer we're looking for.
Lord grant me the courage to stand up against the evil and wicked man.

"for there shall be no reward to the evil man; the candle of the
wicked shall be put out." Prov 24:20
- When would I find refuge in these words? Just the awareness to take
by faith until I experience this? The Lord dwells in wisdom,
righteousness, and virtue. Those who chose to remain outside of those
boundaries are headed for trouble. For wisdom, establishment, and
endurance go hand and hand with the presence of the Lord. You can not
have one without the other.

"My son, fear thou the LORD and the king; and meddle not with them
that are given to change." Prov 24:21
- Respect authority, but be careful if one is wayward with that
authority. Usually those given to change are those who are not
operating by a solid and well thought out plan. For when the plan is
established, hard times do not shake a man from it.

"For their calamity shall rise suddenly; and who knoweth the ruin of
them both?" Prov 24:22
- Wisdom says to pay attention. It's not wise to overspiritualize.

"These sayings also belong to the wise: It is not good to have respect
of persons in judgment." Prov 24:23
- What type of judgement? I have always taken that to mean when
someone has done something bad. What if it's something good? Is this
saying not to consider their character when we judge them?

"He that saith unto the wicked, "Thou art righteous": him shall the
people curse; nations shall abhor him." Prov 24:24
- This feels like George W bush...

"But to them that rebuke him shall be delight, and a good blessing
shall come upon them." Prov 24:25
- To rebuke the wicked... Lord, Should I call out Sy's wicked actions?

"Every man shall kiss his lips that giveth a right answer." Prov 24:26
- Those who know wisdom love those who possess it.

"Prepare thy work outside, and make ready the field for thyself; and
afterwards build thine house." Prov 24:27
Lord Let me live in order!

"Be not a witness against thy neighbor without cause, and deceive not
with thy lips. Say not: "I will do so to him as he hath done to me; I
will render to the man according to his work." - (Previous)

"I went by the field of the slothful, and by the vineyard of the man
void of understanding;" Prov 24:30
- This is what makes life challenging. That there is some form of
either `calling' for a man to be lazy, or that there is this
responsibility for man to not be like this... Can man be other than
what he is? Could this lazy man be anything other than lazy?

"And, lo, it was all grown over with thorns, and nettles had covered
the face thereof, and the stone wall thereof was broken down." - Prov
24:31
- The slothful man does not see the connection of the practical and
simple to the eternal.

"Then I saw, and considered it well: I looked upon it, and received
instruction" Prov 24:32
- Awareness and presence will bring wisdom. Thinking in the moment
will add to the future that my mind is concerned about. My best chance
at making tomorrow at peace is to focus on today. Either by work, or
by planning.

"Yet a little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands
to sleep:" Prov 24:33
- 8 hours max! That should be considered sleeping in. There is plenty
of time to sleep when life is slowing down. We are on the up and up!
That is also what makes vacations so sweet!
There is a day of rest which should also be respected, but that is not
what this is talking about. This is talking about resting when there
is work to be done.

"So shall thy poverty come as one that travelleth; and thy want as an
armed man." Prov: 24:34
- This is the classic reap what you sow. It's amazing that God reveals
His integrity in His creation for us to glean eternal truths from
simple everyday items.
The mind, earth, and science - all normal things we take for granted
are the things that God is using to speak to us deep and eternal
truths. If you don't like God on earth, I'm not sure heaven would be
much different. God is revealing Himself in such a gentle way on
earth.
Lord, may You soften my heart that we may be one. Bring light to my
awareness, grow my comprehension, capacity, and communication that I
may bring Glory back to You. My prayer is clean heart, the revelation
of Christ in me, and to experience Happiness, Adventure, Influence,
and Freedom. Amen.

                              Chapter 25

"These are also proverbs of Solomon, which the men of Hezekiah king of
Judah copied out." v. 1
- Cool. Looking forward to them. I am greatful to them!

"It is the glory of God to conceal a thing: but the honour of kings is
to search out a matter." - Prov 25:2
- What about business?

"Take away the dross from the silver, and there shall come forth a
vessel for the finer." Prov 25:4
- Dross to me is murkyness and uncertainty. Of course it can be
anything that prevents purity.

"Take away the wicked from before the king, and his throne shall be
established in righteousness." - Prov 25:5
- It is necessary to remove those things that will tear you down.
Purge out those parts of your life where they prevent you from walking
righteously.

"Put not forth thyself in the presence of the king, and stand not in
the place of great men." prov 25:6.
- Don't try to be something you're not. At the opportune time you will
be elevated when you have something to say.

"For it is better that it be said unto thee, come up hither; than that
thou shouldest be put lower in the presence of the price whom thine
eyes have seen" Prov 25:7
- Avoid uncomfortable situations when you remain humble...

"Go not forth hastily to strive, lest thou know not what to do in the
end thereof, when thy neighbor hath put thee to shame." Prov 25:8
- It's the rare situation where man should play judge and jury. More
times than not our decisions are based in false or inaccurate
information. It would do me well to not charge in and accuse someone
of something without seeking first to understand their role and
position.

"Debate thy cause with they neighbor himself; and discover not a
secret to another" - Prov 25:9
- It is too easy to get miscommunication and misunderstanding when
more than the affected parties are involved...

"Lest he that heareth it put thee to shame, and thine infamy turn not
away." - Prov 25:10
- Keep your issues with the people involved?

"A word fitly spoken is like apples of gold in pictures of silver."
Prov 25:11
- Maybe it's time to consider that appropriate words have much power.

"As an earring of gold, and an ornament of fine gold, so is a wise
reprover upon an obedient ear." prov 25:12
- Word are powerful and capable of changing someone's heart. Be
careful to speak in the proper time.

"As the cold of snow in the time of harvest, so is a faithful
messenger to them that send him: for he refresheth the soul of this
masters." Prov 25:13
- Lord I understand that there are times when words can breath life
into the hearer. I think this is the case with Danae. Lord would You
speak LIFE into Danae through me on a daily basis. On a moment by
moment basis.

"Whoso boasteth himself of a false gift is like clouds and wind
without rain." Prov 25:14
Humans are very sensitive creatures! In the advent this happens and as
soon as I recognize I've done it, go quickly and humble myself before
the person I did it to.

"By long forbearing is a prince persuaded, and a soft tongue breaketh
the bone." Prov 25:15
- My initial thought is by enduring with a prince through the thick
and thin, they are willing to give you what you want.

Here is another translation:
"A judge is moved by one who for a long time undergoes wrongs without
protest, and by a soft tongue even bone is broken." Bible in Basic
English

That feels like my situation with Jon - that I've stuck it through all
this unorganized thoughts and stuff that he wanted to move me to
Denver, and now has allowed me to go 1099. In his mind it works, and
it works for me too as I take this step of faith that we're going to
start AMB3R.

"Hast thou found honey? eat so much as is sufficient for thee, lest
thou be filled therewith, and vomit it." Prov 25:16
Be aware of my freedom to ruin my own joy.

"Withdraw thy foot from thy neighbors house; lest he be weary of thee,
and so hate thee." Prov 25:17
- Wow, good words. People have schedules and routines because that's
what life requires. People can only put that on hold so long before it
starts to affect their mental state.

"A man that beareth false witness against his neighbor is a maul, and
a sword, and a sharp aarow." Prov 25:18
- Deception and lies tear at the soul of a person who is alive. The
calloused soul can do so, but not to a pure heart.

"Confidence in an unfaithful man in time of trouble is like a broken
tooth, and a foot out of joint" Prov 25:19

This just gave me an additional thought about why a man may be
unfaithful in his vocation. He has to balance the workload with all
other challenges presented before him. He needs to set priorities and
stick to them. If he finds himself in a work role that requires more
time or effort than he's prioritized for it, he drops the ball and
thereby becomes unreliable.
I'm thinking about Real Estate Development and while I want to do it,
I'm not sure if I'm willing to work until 7pm to do so. I want to work
but not at the expense of my family or soul. I want to be found
faithful and full of faith. I want to experience wealth, success, and
balance. I want to maintain a full tank throughout life and not do a
`hare' mentality of work. I believe in due time God is actually going
to place me there. He has given me so many natural born gifts and I
now see these and want to use them unto God's glory. I want to
participate in His calling and grace on me.
I believe He has me here in this time of formation and preparation. I
had believed that it would end when I turned 30. I'll be 31 next
month, and the following I'll be back in school.
There are so many layers of men and work that has gone before me, I
want to remain faithful and experience LIFE!

"As he that taketh away a garment in cold weather, and as vinegar upon
nitre, so is he that sings songs to a heavy heart." Prov 25:20
- Timing is key.

"If thine enemy be hungry, give him bread to eat; and if he be
thirsty, give him water to drink" Prov 25:21
- This is a very spirit inspiried concept. For Man is scared,
insecure, and selfish. We are not naturally thinking or looking out
for others, let alone our enemies.
Father, would You shine Your light on my soul where this takes place.
May I see my enemies - who are really very much those I love at a time
of conflict - for who they are. scared, defensive people that I would
probably be friends with under other circumstances.

"For thou shalt heap coals of fire upon his head, and the LORD shall
reward thee." prov 25:22
- The rewards can come in many ways.

"The north wind driveth away rain. so doth an angry countenance a
backbiting tongue." Prov 25:23
- Rain is the refreshment to the soil. A north wind drives away that
refreshment the way an angry man and back talking can.

"It is better to dwell in the corner of the housetop, than with a
brawling woman and in a wide house." Prov 25:24
- One of my favorite proverbs. Life is made up of more than things.
Peoples internal is actually more important than exterior. For peace
cannot be substituted for things. If you find that you have peace,
recognize the value in that state and season of life. It isn't
guaranteed.

"As cold waters to a thirsty soul, so is good news from a far country"
Prov 25:25
- I need to be reminded of this...

"A righteous man falling down before the wicked is as a troubled
fountain, and a corrupt spring." Prov 25:26
- Could this relate to business? Where I working and trying to keep
the work environment safe and somewhat enjoyable, then we get shit on
by the customers. I think of Jamie Eichler and Jonathan Sheehan most
recently where their ignorance cost me money. There is no grace or
gratefulness from them. As far as I'm concerened they're on my
blacklist.

"It is not good to eat much honey: So for men to search their own
glory is not glory."
Prov 25:27
- The honey is reference to the delicacies of life. While they are
nice to enjoy, they are the icing on the cake. Life becomes
meaningless when consumption is the goal. Consumption, like wealth is
a means to an end.
Men who search out glory are wasting their time and building on their
insecurities.

"He that hath no rule over his own spirit is like a city that is
broken down, and without walls." Prove 25:28
- This was a huge verse for me with self control. The analogy is that
a city is unsafe and prone to any disease, disorder, and destruction
if it is not properly protected. So are we that we cannot let the
world rule us. But we must recognize the value and fragile nature of
our spirits. We are capable of being destroyed.

                              Chapter 26

"As snow in the summer, and as rain in harvest, so honour is not
seemly for a fool." Prov 26:1
- It distorts the human spirit when we see someone who is incapable of
their weath or position, enjoy such a luxury. We sit baffled that we
could see someone live foolishly and experience the fruits of hard
work.

"As the bird by wandering, as the swallow by flying, so the curse
causeless shall not come." Prov 26:2
- Reap what you sow. For every action there is a reaction...

"A whip for the horse, a bridle for teh ass, and a rod for the fool's
back" Prove 26:3
- The fool is the one who is lost and walking in a destrutive manner.
The truth is we need to be corrected. Even if it causes temporary pain
and suffering. The Lord loves us and wants to see us live in truth and
light.

"Answer not a fool according to his folly, lest thou also be like unto
him." Prov 26:4
I feel like this refers to `stooping' to their level.

"Answer a fool according to his folly, lest he be wise in his own
conceit." Prov 26:5.
THere are times when a fool should be corrected. This is regarding
hearing out their points and showing the shortsightedness of it all..

"He that sendeth a message by the hand of a fool cutteth off the feet,
and drinketh damage"
Prov 26:6
Fools are unreliable and can distore the true intentions of the
sender.
Q - What are the attributes of a fool that this passage is most
thinking of?

"The Legs of the lame are not equal; So is a parable in the mouth of
fools." Prov 26:7
My first thought is to use this first part in a joke the next time
someone asks me to quote a bible verse...
I think it's saying that Fools lack discernment and retention to
retell the deeper truths.
hmm...

"As he that bindeth a stone in a sling, so is he that giveth honour to
fools." Prov 26:8
- Foolishness is darkness, ignorance, and a lack of understanding.
Giving someone honor and respect only perpetuates that destructive
living.

"As a thorn goeth up into the hand of a drunkard, so is a parable in
the mouth of fools." Prov 26:9
- Signs of caution are ignored.

"The Great God that formed all things both rewardeth the fool, and
rewardeth the transgressors." Prov 26:10
- Rewards are not absolutes. His Glory and eternal plan are.

"As a dog returneth to his vomit, so a fool returneth to his folly."
v. 11

"Seest thou a man wise in his own conceit? There is more hope of a
fool than of him." v. 12
- Conceit, belief that you are something more than you are will cause
blindness of the heart, soul, and relationships.

"The slothful man saith, There is a lion in the way; a lion is in the
streets." V. 13
- there is always a good excuse for not working.

"As a door turneth upon his hinges, so doth the slothful upon his
bed." v. 14.
- Probably meaning that while he doesn't need sleep, he still lays
there.

"The slothful hideth his hand in his bosom; it griveth him to bring it
to his mouth" v. 15.
- Not sure what this means...

"The sluggard is wiser in his own conceit than seven men that can
render a reason" V. 16
- Sluggard, foolishness, and pride all go together. People who refuse
to humble themselves to see that other people could have better
insight.

"He that passeth by, and meddleth with strife belonging not to him, is
like one that taketh a dog by the ears." v. 17

"As a mad man who casteth firebrands, arrows, and death, so is the man
that deceiveth his neighbor, and saith, Am not I in sport?" V 18 - 19

"Where no wood is, there the fire goeth out; so where there is no
talebearer, the strife ceaseth." v. 26:20
- Some things need to be left alone.

"As coals are to burning coals, and wood to fire; so is a contentious
man to kindle strife"
26:21
- Men have the ability to stoke emotions.

"the words of a talebearer are as wounds, and they go down into the
innermost parts of the belly." v. 22
- People are made to want to trust others. Those who tell are not to
be trusted.

"Burning lips and a wicked heart are like a potsherd covered with
silver dross."
- v 23.
On the outside they may have some shimmer and shine but it is suface
deep. How do I identify these people?

"He that hateth dissembleth with his lips, and layeth up deceit within
him;" Proverbs 26:24.
- Negativity is a terrible habit. When I am frustrated as I am with
class and stuff, consider how and what I can think of that is pure.

"When he speaketh fair, believe him not; for there are seven
abominations in his heart." Prov 26:25.
- Keep guard against unrighteous men.

"Whose hatred is covered by deceit, his wickedness shall be shewed
before the whole congregation. prov 26:26

"Whoso diggeth a pit shall fall therein; and he that rolleth a stone,
it will return upon him." Prov 26:27
- You reap what you sow. Turn these principals to good.

"A lying tongue hateth those that are afflicted by it; and a
flattering mouth worketh ruin." Prov 26:28
- The power of the tongue and those that use it for wickedness.

Chapter 27

"Boast not thyself in tomorrow; for thou knowest not what a day may
bring forth."
- I take this to mean that while I have goals, I shouldn't talk as if
they are guaranteed...
