RMSA comments
=============

your experience with software development including a small software
program and a narrative describing your understanding of the purpose
of variables, constants, types of data, and flow control (repetitive
loops and conditional branches) and anything you found interesting,
challenging, or significant about the program… we are not
expecting it to be a difficult program, we just want to know that you
understand the basics

My exposure to software development is through books and online
tutorials. I have studied books on JavaScript and Ruby. I built a
fruit generator that holds cost, quantity, and calculates the total
cost of that item. The Fruit program was a big step for me to be able
to do a lot of actives, with very little code.

a description of the tools/languages you used to build the website and
how you used each
I built dave.woodalls.me, and www.amb3r.com using Adobe Fireworks,
Coda, HTML5, and CSS3.

your ethical values
My ethical values are shaped by a biblical world view. Specificly this
translates into a continual striving toward leadership, humility,
integrity, honesty, and serving my fellow man. I believe everyone
reaps what they sow, and my aspiration is to sow wisdom and wealth.

your goals
In list form;
1. Spend 3 - 4 years completely immersed in web application software
development to learn how to deploy and administer online applications.
More specifically, I am interested in two environments - The rails
ecosystem, and the iphone/ipad apps.
2. Once acquired of the trade, I wish to have the flexibility to work
from anywhere for a portion of the year. While solo-programming might
not be as productive as pair-programming, I am drawn to the lifestyle
of being able to travel to parts of the world with my family, and work
at the same time.
3. Build SAAS products. The motivation to become immersed is to
develop businesses online that meet peoples daily needs. I have web
app ideas, but I know they will become sharpened with added skill and
experience.
(These goals also describe my understanding of what it means to be a
software craftsman and why you want to be one.)

your evidence that you will be able to complete this intense immersion
successfully (this may include, but not be limited to, personal
references)
I am confident I can complete the activities. As comparison, the past
four years I maintained the following schedule;
3:30 am - 5:30 am: study web, write business school essays, or study
GMAT
5:30am - 6:30am: exercise
8am - 5pm: creative director for a $20M sportswear company, managing 9
artists
6pm - 8pm: class two nights a week.
8pm - 11pm: work on side business www.AMB3R.com (same two nights a
week)
(The other three nights I would be home by 6pm to be with my family)
Saturdays 6am - 1pm: Work on AMB3R
Sunday: Day off.

your views on learning and serving
"Live like you will die tomorrow. Learn like you will live forever."
That summarizes how I think about learning and why the web is such an
appealing profession. That part of my requirement would be to maintain
constant learning.
Serving is one of the ways to see the visible and invisible world
collide. There are many things to be learned and discovered about life
when one carries an attitude and spirit of service and humility.
