John McArthur fatherhood series
===============================

Grace to You :: Unleashing God's Truth One Verse as a Time
Crucial Lessons for a Wise Father
Crucial Lessons for a Wise Father
Selected Proverbs

This is Father's Day and a fitting time to speak to that father that
is here in our fellowship in our

congregation this morning. As a father myself of four children, these
are lessons that I will share with
you out of the Word of God that have been very precious to my own
heart as well. I don't get an
opportunity very often, nor do I take it, to focus direction on
fathers and so I want to do that this
morning.
One little boy's definition of Father's Day went like this, "Well,
it's just like Mother's Day only you
don't spend so much." Well we fathers can concede that. Someone said,
"A father is someone who
carries pictures where his money used to be." And the phone company
tells us that calls on Father's
Day are not as high in number as calls on Mother's Day and most of
them are collect.
Well Father's Day is, for those of us who are fathers and who have the
privilege of having loving
children, a very special time. I know on this particular Father's Day
I'm missing three of mine for the
first time that I can recall, they're all gone but one. It's still
nonetheless a special joy to see what God
has wrought in the life of your children and to enjoy some of the
sweet fruit of His grace in their lives.
Being a father has always been a high priority for me...not only
because it was for my father and his
father but because of what the Word of God has to say. Unfortunately
that high priority role of the
father is being systematically attacked and destroyed in our culture.
This particular society in which we live has attacked the male role
with such devastating force that I
really do believe we have sentenced the next three or four generations
to tragic experiences of
disastrous proportions because if one thing is clear in Scripture it
is this...the sins of the fathers are
visited upon the third and the fourth generations. What that means is,
where you have wicked men in
leadership, where you have a decline in the father's role, it takes
three or four generations to root out the
evil that they produce. We are not looking at a situation where
because of a sinning father three or four
generations of son...of sons will pay the penalty. Not at all. Ezekiel
18 forbids that in advocating
individual responsibility. But what we are seeing is that because
fathers lead a nation, a wicked
generations of fathers will so impact that nation for three or four
generations that it takes that long to
root out their wicked effect. I believe that the legacy of this
generation of fathers is tragedy upon
tragedy upon tragedy in the following generations.
In the plan of God, however, that's not the way it's supposed to be
and certainly in the church we
should be following that plan. Whatever may be happening in the
society around us, we should be
ensuring a righteous generation in the church. We have a
responsibility as fathers to our sons
particularly...sons who tend to be for the most part more rebellious
than daughters because they are the
ones given by God leadership roles and capacities. If we will
faithfully teach our sons, they will by
example and precept lead the women as well. Where you have a plurality
in the nation of godly fathers,
they will impact the mothers. And where you have godly sons, they will
impact the daughters of the
next generation. And so the high priority of Scripture then is that
fathers teach their sons...and thus
raise up a generation of godly leaders.
Because God has ordained this and because God wanted us to be sure
that it was followed carefully,
God by the inspiration of the Holy Spirit gave a manual for fathers to
use on their sons. A basic
research book, that book is the book of Proverbs and I want to invite
you to turn to it if you will right
now and we're going to be looking at the first ten chapters of
Proverbs in a very general sense.
This book is the lesson book on living from which fathers teach their
sons. In fact, that is very
apparent. If you look at chapter 1 verse 8, "Hear, my son, your
father's instruction. And while at the
same time not forsaking your mother's teaching." You find again
chapter 2 verse 1, "My son, if you
will receive my sayings..." Chapter 3 verse 1, "My son, do not forget
my teaching." Chapter 4 verse 1,
"Hear, O sons, the instruction of a father..." verse 10, "hear, my
son, and accept my sayings." Verse 20,
"My son, give attention to my words." Chapter 5 verse 1, "My son, give
attention to my wisdom."
Chapter 6 verse 1, "My son," chapter 6 verse 20, "My son, observe the
commandment of your father."
Chapter 7 verse 1, "My son, keep my words."
And so it goes that this entire passage is designed for a father to
teach his son. As fathers go, so go
nations...so go generations...so goes history. And so God took the
principles, the basic principles of
spiritual living and packaged them in the 31 chapters that we call
Proverbs.
Now a proverb is very simple. It is a principle stated in concise
terms. We could say a proverb is
wise in content, and concise in form. It is a brief to the point pithy
statement for the purpose of
instruction...brief to the point that they might be remembered.
What you have in Proverbs then is a compilation of these concise wise
statements. This then
becomes the basic book of truth that fathers use to teach their
children, a book of wisdom. And frankly,
if fathers are to raise a generation of godly men who will lead the
women to godliness, they must teach
the truths that are mandated in this father's manual.
Frankly, just to depart from that a moment, there's a lot of
instruction available today for fathers to
teach their sons, much of it even in a Christian context, that is
pretty much trivial. Much of today's
instruction is...to be a friend, listen to your son, go places with
your son, take him to a ball game, have
fun, follow his interests...etc., etc. What Proverbs has to say is
much deeper than that. Teach your son
trivial things, you'll raise a trivial father who will teach his son
trivial things. Teach your son deep
things, you'll raise a son who becomes a father who teaches his son
deep things.
So the primary duty of a father is not what one little boy said..."The
primary duty of my dad is to
take out the trash." The primary duty of a father is not even to bring
home the bacon. The primary duty
of a father is not to fix what's broken. The primary of a duty of a
father is to teach holy living to his
sons...and, of course, to his children as well including the
daughters...but primarily the sons.
Now in this process of teaching there is one compelling overarching
consummate summary lesson
and that is that we are to teach them wisdom. The word which dominates
the Proverbs is the word
"wisdom." Sometimes the word instruction appears, sometimes the word
understanding appears,
sometimes the word discretion appears. But all of those words are
simply elements of wisdom...to
know, to understand, to be instructed, to have discretion means to act
in wisdom. Wisdom means not
simply thought but conduct. It means to live righteously. We are to
teach our sons spiritual wisdom is
the noblest and greatest and purest pursuit of their life.
In chapter 1 verse 20 wisdom is shouting in the streets, wisdom is
personified here. Wisdom is
lifting up her voice in the square. She is crying out in verse 22 for
people to turn away from being
naive, scoffers who are fools and to turn to wisdom.
The call of the whole book of Proverbs is that call, a call to wisdom.
In fact, in chapter 2, would you
please notice, the call by wisdom comes at the end of chapter 1 as
wisdom personified cries out and
cries out for men to come to her. In chapter 2 then we find the father
encouraging his son to seek
wisdom. Verse 4, "If you seek her as silver and search for her as for
hidden treasure, then you will
discern the fear of the Lord and discover the knowledge of God, for
the Lord gives wisdom, from His
mouth come knowledge and understanding." The father is saying pursue
wisdom...pursue
wisdom...pursue wisdom.
In chapter 8 the whole chapter is about pursuing wisdom, going after
wisdom. Verse 11 says
wisdom is better than jewels and all desirable things cannot compare
with her. Again the pursuit of
wisdom. And so, the overarching lesson that a father teaches his son
is to pursue wisdom. And chapter
10 verse 1 says a wise son will make a father glad...a foolish son
will be a grief to his mother.
We are then, fathers, responsible on this Father's Day to rethink this
priority of teaching our sons
wisdom. And I would like us to look at these first ten chapters and
just pick and choose the elements
that are here that I think make up ten crucial lessons a faithful
father must teach his sons. And I want to
tell you from my own life that these are the things that I have
endeavored as a father to teach my two
sons. If a son learns these ten things, he will be a blessing to you
and he will be blessed by God. If you
want your son to be a blessing to you, to be blessed by God, to bless
the culture in which he lives, these
are the ten lessons that you must teach your son. The sum of them is
spiritual wisdom. This is a listing
of the component parts of spiritual wisdom.
Lesson number one, teach your son to fear your God...fear your God. In
chapter 1 and verse 7, "The
fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge," and chapter 9 verse
10 says, "The fear of the Lord is
the beginning of wisdom." But everything starts with fearing God.
Teach your son..."Son, fear your
God."
What do you mean fear? Well it has on the one hand a positive aspect,
a reverential respect, a
reverential awe. That means that I have to teach my son about God. I
have to teach my son what God
is like. I have to teach my son the attributes of God. I have to teach
my son that God is powerful, that
God is holy, that God is omniscient, omnipresent. I have to teach my
son that God is immutable, his
nature does not change, that He is just, that He is merciful, that He
is kind, that He is loving, that He is
gracious, that He is merciful, that He orders providentially all the
circumstance of human history and
the universe for His good, that He is a sovereign, in a word. I must
teach my son to reverence the
greatness of God.
And then the other side of it is I must teach my son to fear God's
displeasure...to fear God's right to
punish, God's right to chasten, God's right to judge. And in that awe
of reverencing God's holy
character there is a healthy sense of apprehension because I know as a
holy God He has a right to
punish sin, including mine. If you want to do your son the greatest
favor any father could ever do,
teach him the character of God. Teach him what God is like. On the
positive side, all of His attributes.
I remember when our children were little we took them through a book,
Leading Little Ones To God
which taught the attributes of God. We've always emphasized the
attributes of God. They must know
who their God is and they must learn to worship their God...that's
part of fearing Him. Teach your sons
to worship. And you teach not only by what you say but by what you do.
Do you worship faithfully on
the Lord's day? Are you consistent and faithful in worshiping the
Lord? Are you here at the opening of
the day in the morning and the closing in the evening service? Are you
faithful to worship God in the
Word yourself personally? Does your son look at you and see a true
worshiper? Because whatever
patterns of worship you have established for yourself, you have
established for your son and he will
likely establish for his son. What kind of legacy are you leaving?
And what about living in a healthy fear of God's holy right to punish
sin? Do you have that healthy
fear? Do you understand that God has the right to punish you? Do you
so live to avoid that?
Notice chapter 3 of Proverbs verse 5, this is really a description of
a worshiping heart. "Trust in the
Lord with all your heart and do not lean on your own understanding; in
all your ways acknowledge Him
and He will make your paths straight." The point being that if I am
completely focused on God, He's
going to guard my life, He's going to straighten my path. I want to
teach my son how to trust the Lord
with all his heart. The word trust in the Hebrew originally meant to
lie helplessly face down. And
there's a sense of humility there, but there's also a sense of
submission there to the total sovereign
control of God in which the worshiper says I not only am humbled in
Your presence but I bow in Your
presence submissively to anything that You would choose to do, that's
how much I trust You. Teach
your son to trust that way. Teach him not to lean on his own
understanding. The Hebrew word does
not mean to incline, it means to support yourself. Teach him not to
support himself by his own wisdom
but to support himself by God's wisdom. In all your ways acknowledge
Him. The word there means to
be aware of, to know, to have fellowship with. In everything in life
teach him to do it in union
communion with the living God. Teach him how to trust God for
everything. How to lean on God for
support totally and how to be aware of God's consistent presence in
his life. And if he so lives with that
kind of trust and that kind of leaning and that kind of acknowledging,
God's going to direct his path.
Teach him to fear his God.
And I believe that when God is feared, so is sin...so is sin. Proverbs
says fearing the Lord prolongs
life. You want to give your son that kind of rich full life? Proverbs
says fearing the Lord is more
profitable than wealth, it brings about life. It keeps one from evil.
It results in riches and honor and it
breeds humility. Proverbs says that those who fear God sleep satisfied
and are untouched by evil. They
have confidence, they will be praised and they have their prayers
answered. Would you like that for
your son? Would you like to know that your son will have his life
prolonged to its fullness? Would
you like to know that he will be kept from evil, that he will be
brought honor and riches? That he
would be humble, untouched by evil? Satisfied, confident, praised and
have his prayers answered?
Then teach him to fear God. This is the most crucial lesson a father
could ever teach a son.
Lesson number two. Son, not only fear your God but guard your
mind...guard your mind. Chapter 3
verse 3, among many, introduces the heart here. And the writer
mentions kindness, chesed(?), that
beautiful word that means love, loyalty, faithfulness, fidelity,
kindness. And then the word met(?)
which means truth or accuracy, reliability or dependability. Take
that, those two marvelous things,
loyalty, faithfulness, fidelity and all of that, along with reliable,
dependable, accurate truth and bind
them around your neck and write them on the tablet of your heart,
chisel, as it would be in the stone of
your mind. Heart has reference to mind, the seat of thought and
emotion and will.
In other words, teach your son to guard his mind. You are responsible
as a father for the mind of
your child. Boy, what a tremendous responsibility today. When the
assault on the human mind is at
such a level as it is today through the media, the job of guarding the
mind of your young person and
teaching him how to guard it is indeed a formidable task. Chapter 4,
would you notice verse 23?
"Watch over your heart with all diligence," the father says to his
son, "for from it flow the springs of
life." Guard your mind diligently because everything in life comes out
of it. Out of it comes your
conduct. It's not what goes into a man, Jesus said in Matthew, it's
what comes out of a man that defiles
him. And so what goes in is not the issue. What starts in and comes
out is. And so the heart must be
right. The father then has the task of assuring the son's mind is
programmed with truth with virtue, with
faithfulness, with honesty, with integrity, with loyalty, with love,
with all that those two words in
chapter 3 can sum up. Father, you have a responsibility to teach your
son to guard his mind.
All the way through this passage and I wish we had time to just kind
of wander through the ten
chapters, you see this. Back in verse 9 of chapter 1 he talks about
the fact that good instruction is a
graceful wreath to your head, and ornaments around your neck.
They...when a son wears the truth in
his heart, it graces him. In chapter 2 and verse 10 He wants wisdom to
enter your heart and knowledge
be pleasant to your soul so that discretion will guard you and
understanding will watch over you to
deliver you from the way of evil. In chapter 3 verse 1, "Let your
heart keep My commandments."
Chapter 4 verse 4, "Let your heart hold fast My words, keep My
commandments and live." And that is
the issue that the mind, or the heart as it's called, be guarded
carefully. Father, you are the guardian of
your child's mind. You must keep the right stuff going in and the
wrong stuff out, that is your duty
before God to guard your son's mind, your children as well. What a
tremendous responsibility we
have. That means we have to protect our children from what they are
exposed to. That's the negative.
The positive, we must make sure that they exposed to what we want to
fill their mind, therein lies the
benefit of a godly education, of Christian training, of exposure to
the teaching of the Word of God.
That is the duty of the father. Teach your son...fear your God, son,
and guard your mind for out of it
comes your conduct.
Third great lesson, a father must teach his son...obey your
parents...obey your parents. All through
this entire section these statements about "hear, my son, your
father's instruction," are repeated...chapter
1 verse 8, chapter 2 verse 1, 3 verse 1, 4 verse 1 and then again in
chapter 4 it's repeated again and
again. Look at verse 10, "Hear, my son, accept my sayings." Verse 11,
"I have directed you in the way
of wisdom, I have led you in upright paths." Do what I say, is what
he's saying. Verse 20, "My son,
give attention to my words, incline your ear to my sayings, do not let
them depart from your sight, keep
them in the midst of your heart, or your mind." We're reinforcing here
the first commandment with
promise which is, "Children, obey your parents in the Lord." That's
the first commandment with
promise. Teach your sons to obey what you say.
Now that means discipline. Go back to chapter 3 verse 11. "My son, do
not reject the discipline of
the Lord, nor loathe His reproof, for whom the Lord loves He reproves,
even as a father the son in
whom he delights." If you love your son you discipline him, you
reprove him, you rebuke him. Here is
discipline. And if we are to have dutiful faithful sons who carry on a
righteous pattern, they must learn
to obey their parents and discipline is part of that. Chapter 10 verse
13, "A rod is for the back of him
who lacks understanding." When your son doesn't do what you want him
to do, you use a rod. Later
on in Proverbs it says he has rebellion in his heart, drive it far
from him with a rod. This is discipline
not done in anger but done in love. Whom the Father loves He
disciplines. And this discipline is done
for the purpose of conforming your son to wisdom, for the purpose of
breaking selfwill, for the purpose
of removing foolishness, for the purpose of delivering the child from
spiritual death and for the purpose
of making him a delight to his parents. All of those things are taught
in Proverbs. Teach your children
to obey and use a rod to reinforce because God says physical
punishment done in love is a strong
corrective. That way your children learn to obey their parents. And if
they learn to obey their parents
and their parents are advocating the law of God, they will learn to
obey the law of God. And if they
learn to obey their parents, they will learn to submit to the parents'
authority and later on when they're
living in society they will learn to submit to societal authority in
any form. A disobedient child, you
see, makes not only a spiritual disaster but an antisocial personality
and very often a criminal adult.
You have a task, father, to say to your son you must learn to fear
your God, guard your mind and
obey your parents. You must learn how to submit to authority and since
we represent the authority of
God and are teaching you the wisdom of God, you must obey...you must
obey. I do not believe there's
any excuse for a rebellious child. I believe that children can be
under control if they're properly taught
by their fathers to obey.
There's a fourth principle and this must be taught as well...and very
very important. A father must
teach his son...select your companions...select your companions. You
get on the offensive. A father
has the responsibility to teach his children how to choose their
friends. What did the Apostle Paul say?
Bad company corrupts...what?...good morals. Bad company corrupts good
morals. Your children,
believe me, cannot rise above their acquaintances. Rarely does a child
have the capability to elevate
himself beyond the constituent group in which he functions. You have
to select and help him learn to
select companions and not let them select him.
Go back to chapter 1 for a moment, I'll give you an illustration of
it. Verse 10, a father would say to
his son, "My son, if sinners entice you, do not consent." In other
words, don't get sucked in to the
gang. If they say, and they appeal on the basis of excitement and
adventure and a thrill, if they say,
"Come with us, let us lie in wait for blood, let us ambush the
innocence without cause, let us swallow
them alive like Sheol, even whole as those who go down to the pit."
Let's kill somebody and we'll find
all kinds of precious wealth and fill our houses with gold, throw in
your lot with us and we'll all have
one purse. Here's the gang appealing to the kid. And the gang comes
along and sucks up one other
person for their own wicked purposes.
It's amazing, isn't it, this kind of action, for one fleeting moment
of pleasure wicked men are willing
to take a life or inflict lifelong trauma on someone pointless,
senseless, gangviolence, like those
members of that gang that shot Stacy Limb last week with a 357 Magnum
because they wanted to take
the wheels off her car. It's an unthinkable thing that people will do
for a thrill. And they want to suck
the innocent and the naive and the unwitting in to that. Think about
that little boy a week ago in the
news who wouldn't take dope with his friends in New York City, so they
set him on fire. The
enticements can be pretty strong. Fathers, we have a tremendous task.
You may not live in an inner
city ghetto like New York, or East Los Angeles, but I'll tell you
what, there is tremendous peer pressure
coming upon your sons to conform to a standard of conduct that is the
standard of conduct of the people
around them. You must teach them to select their companions and not be
selected and then intimidated
into that kind of alliance.
The whole appeal here is to the father to fulfill his responsibility.
In chapter 2 verse 11 the father
has to teach his son how to be delivered from the way of evil, from
the man who speaks perverse
things. You don't want to be around those kinds of people. From those
who leave the paths of
uprightness to walk in the ways of darkness, you want to make sure
your children aren't around those
kinds of people who delight in doing evil and rejoice in the
perversity of evil, whose paths are crooked
and who are devious in their ways. Don't let your sons around those
kinds of people. You instruct
them how to choose their companions, those who lift them up.
Proverbs 18:24 is kind of an interesting verse just jumping outside of
our ten chapter fence a little
bit. Proverbs 18:24 at first reading looks a little hard to understand
in English, "A man of many friends
comes to ruin, but there is a friend who sticks closer than a
brother." It's kind of an interesting verse in
the Hebrew. It says a man of many rea comes to ruin, but there is a
aheb who sticks closer than a
brother. It's two different words for friend. A man who just wants a
lot of acquaintances, who wants to
be everybody's buddy is going to be in trouble. Better you should have
a deep friend, an aheb, a loving
friend who is loyal and honest and uplifting and holds you
accountable, who lifts you up. Better a few
of the right kind of friendships than a lot of the wrong kind.
Fathers, you have the responsibility to God
for the process of your children learning how to choose their
companions. This is a father's duty...son,
fear your God, guard your mind, obey your parents, select your
companions.
Fifth, control your body. Any witting father who has any sense at all
realizes that young men are
going to develop passions that can lead them in to tragedy upon
tragedy unless they learn how to
control their body, their bodily desires. And as you get in to this
section, this is THE dominant theme
throughout these first few chapters of Proverbs. Go to chapter 2 for a
moment, verse 16, this is
repeated and we don't have time to go in to all of it but I'll give
you a little sense of what the writer
says...2:16, he's talking about wisdom and wisdom alone, that is the
wisdom of God, spiritual wisdom
that a father is supposed to teach his son, is able to deliver you
from the strange woman. Well what
does the word strange mean? Foreign. Why do you have to worry about a
foreign woman? Because
she's away from home. Well what does that mean? Well she's away from
her husband, she's away
from her family, she's away from her friends, she's away from
accountability and so being...she's the
outoftown woman, if you will. And it's real easy for her to act any
way she wants because the
constraints are off. You beware of that roaming woman who is away from
the point of her
responsibility. Beware of the adulteress who flatters with her words,
that leaves the companion of her
youth...that's her husband...and forgets the covenant of her
God...that's her marriage vow. Beware of
her because her house sinks down to death and her tracks lead to the
dead. Why? Because adultery by
biblical prescription required the death penalty. She'll bring you to
death.
Some think that this is a reference also to a venereal disease or even
to the divine intervention of
God in an act of punishment. But I think the primary issue here is way
back to Deuteronomy chapter
22 where God says people who commit adultery are to be executed.
Passion is as strong as it is,
however, as evidenced by the fact that men who would know they would
have perhaps to lose their life
would still follow their passion. At the moment in time lust for sex
outweighs the desire to live. Stay
away, teach your son sexual selfcontrol, Father, so he doesn't destroy
his life, destroy his family.
Chapter 5 follows it up. Verse 1, "My son, give attention to my
wisdom, incline your ear to my
understanding that you may observe discretion, that your lips may
reserve knowledge." Here's a very
important lesson for the son, "The lips of an adulteress drip honey
and smoother than oil is her speech,
her kisses are sweet and she's going to sweet talk you but in the end
she is bitter as wormwood, sharp as
a twoedged sword, her feet go down to death, her steps lay hold of
Sheol, she doesn't ponder the path of
life, her ways are unstable, she doesn't know it. And now then, my
sons, listen to me and do not depart
from the words of my mouth, keep your way far from her and don't go
near the door of her house and
don't give your vigor to others." That is, don't procreate through
others. Don't give your years to the
cruel one and let strangers be filled with your strength and your hard
earned goods go the house of an
alien. Don't have to support the children of some woman that isn't
even in your home. Don't give away
your seed to someone else. Don't create children through someone else.
Don't give your strength to
another family and have to spend the rest of your life paying some
kind of alimony or whatever. In the
end your flesh and body are consumed. You'll say, "How I have hated
instruction and my heart spurned
reproof and I haven't listened to the voice of my teachers, nor
inclined my ear to my instructor." Some
day you're going to say I wish I would have done what my dad told me.
Teach your son sexual purity.
Chapter 6 takes it further, verse 20 and all the way down to the end,
pick it up in verse 24, "Wisdom
is given to you to keep you from the evil woman, the smooth tongue of
the adulteress, don't desire her
beauty in your heart, don't let her catch you with her eyelids, for on
account of a harlot one is reduced
to a loaf of bread." She'll turn you into nothing quick. An adulteress
hunts for the precious life. There
you are, this precious life, she just wants to hunt you. Can you take
fire in your bosom and your clothes
not be burned? Can you walk on hot coals and your feet not be
scorched? So is the one who goes in to
his neighbor's wife, whoever touches her will not go unpunished. It's
going to cost you and it's going to
cost you dearly. Verse 32, "Anyone who commits adultery with a woman
is lacking sense. He who
would destroy himself does it." Why do people do that? "Wounds and
disgrace he will find. And his
reproach will not be blotted out." Let me tell you, an adulterer has a
reproach not blotted out. You
know, that's a good thing to keep in mind when you remember that it
says in 1 Timothy 3 that one who
is an elder must be above reproach. And if an elder or a pastor falls
in to sexual sin and adultery, this
text says that approach will not be blotted out. And once you bear
that reproach and that stigma, it
appears to be a permanent one, a permanent disqualification. That's a
heavy price to pay.
Chapter 7, the whole chapter is devoted to a fascinating scenario. We
can pick it up in verse 6,
here's the victim, this hairbrained, featherheaded, naive guy wanders
in to temptation. He's in the part
of town he shouldn't be in. She's at the window of the house looking
out through the lattice. I saw
among the naive, I discerned among the youths a young man lacking
sense...just the kind she likes.
Who was passing through the street near her corner and he takes the
way to her house. He knows what
he's doing, he's down in a part of the city he has no business being
in, he's roaming around in his
stupidity, not knowing what he's going to get in to. That's the
victim.
The hunt starts in verse 10. There he is in the twilight in the
evening in the middle of the night and
she comes, verse 10, she comes to meet him dressed as a harlot,
cunning of heart, boisterous, rebellious,
her feet do not remain at home, she is now in the streets, now in the
squares and lurks by every corner.
That's the hunt. The tactics...look at how she goes after this guy.
Verse 13, this is what's known as the
direct approach, she seizes him and kisses him. Whoa! I remember
walking through Iponema(?) one
time in Brazil and having a harlot grab me and a harlot pull on my
coat and literally...I kept walking
and she kept yanking on my coat insisting that I go with her. That was
the direct approach. And I kept
whacking at her hand to get off my coat. Nothing new, they've done it
that way before, I guess. Verse
14, she gives him this business...I was due to offer peace offerings,
today I paid my vows. In other
words, help me celebrate, this is a big religious day for me so will
you come and help me with my
religious celebration? And then comes flattery in verse 15, "O
therefore I have come out to meet you to
seek your presence earnestly and I...you're just the guy I was looking
for." Sure. Just the one I sought.
Then the sensual seduction, "I spread my couch with coverings, with
colored linen of Egypt,
sprinkled my bed with myrrh, aloes and cinnamon, come let us drink our
fill of love until morning, let
us delight ourselves with caresses." This is sensual seduction. And
then she gives him the safety pitch,
verse 19, "The man is not at home, he's on a long journey, he's taken
a bag of money with him, at full
moon he'll come home." In other words, he's got so much money because
he's got so much business to
do and he's going to be there a while, you've got nothing to worry
about.
And after all of those attempts she finally tries to kill him with
words, verse 21, "With her many
persuasions she entices him with her flattering lips she seduces him."
She talks him to death, just talk,
talk, talk, keep the seduction going. Then comes the kill. Suddenly he
follows her...stupid
featherbrained naive guy...as an ox to slaughter and one in chains to
the discipline of a fool until an
arrow pierces through his liver as a bird hastens to the snare, so he
doesn't know that it will cost him his
life. The end of verse 27 says he goes into the chambers of death.
Teach your son that. Teach your son sexual purity. Teach your son to
control his body. Chapter 9
verses 13 to 18 go further through that scenario...a woman of folly
who wants to lead you to the grave.
Sure stolen water is sweet and bread eaten in secret is pleasant but
it will kill you...it will kill you.
Teach your son, keep mentally away. Don't go to certain places in
town. Don't get caught in certain
comprising situations. Keep your hands to yourself. Stay away from
women like that. Guard your
feet. Guard your eyes. Guard your ears. Teach your son that. Control
his body for purity and he'll be
a delight to you and blessed by God.
There's a flip side of that. You say, "Well if you teach him that too
strong and then when he gets
married he won't appreciate the joys of marital sex, so you have to
balance it." Point number six, teach
him, "Son, enjoy your wife." While it is forbidden prior to marriage,
it is exalted afterwards. Go back
to chapter 5. This is so beautiful the way it is articulated. Verse 15
says, "Drink water from your own
cistern," and this is following on the passage about the harlot.
"Drink water from your own cistern and
fresh water from your own well." When you're thirsty, find your
satisfaction with your own wife, that's
what it means. When you're physically thirsty, find your satisfaction
from your own wife. Drink water
from your own cistern and your own well. Should your springs be
dispersed abroad, streams of water
in the streets?
You know, one of the things that people wouldn't want to see in that
particular part of the world in
ancient times was just water flowing through the street. Nobody in
their right mind would just take
buckets of water and throw them across the street, just throw them
down the pavement or the dirt.
Why? Because water was very precious. And not only that there wasn't
much of it, it was hard to get
at to get. And nobody was going to be just wasting water and he uses
that as an analogy as people
would be considered foolish who just threw water in the streets, you
are considered an absolute fool if
you just go out in the street and spread your stream everywhere and
produce babies by other people.
Don't do that. A fool would do that...foolish and wasteful is a man
who fathers children all over town,
all over the street. Let them be yours alone, he says, and not for
strangers with you. "Let your
fountain...your procreative capacity...be blessed, and here it is, and
rejoice in the wife of your youth as
a longing hind and a graceful doe. Let her breasts satisfy you at all
times, be exhilarated always with
her love. For why should you, my son, be exhilarated with an
adulteress and embrace the bosom of a
foreigner?" And he reminds him in verse 21 that God is watching and
sees everything. Enjoy your
wife, be exhilarated with her love, let her breasts satisfy you at all
times, rejoice in her...teach your son
that.
Teach your son by the way you treat your wife and by the things you
say to be totally fulfilled in his
own marriage. Teach him what Proverbs says that a wife is a gift from
God, more precious than
jewels. Teach him that a wife is given to be his best friend and
companion, that a wife is to serve his
needs and that of the children and she is to be rewarded for her
efforts and praised, as Proverbs 31
says. Teach him the beauty and the wonder and the blessedness of a
gift of a wife and teach him to
enjoy his wife. And you will teach him best if you enjoy yours.
The wife father, what is he doing? He's saying to his son...fear your
God, guard your mind, obey
your parents, select your companions, control you body, enjoy your
wife...those are the key lessons.
Let me give you just a few more. Number seven, watch your
words...watch your words. Teach your
son to be careful how he speaks. Chapter 4 verse 24, "My son," he says
in verse 20, down in verse 24
he adds, "Put away from you a deceitful mouth, put devious lips far
from you, make sure you don't
speak lies, make sure you don't speak hypocritically, make sure you
don't speak perversely, make sure
you don't speak deceitfully, speak pure true words."
Certainly one of the things that I grew up with was that lesson. I am
about as far away from using
any curse word, or one remotely related to a curse word as any human
being in the earth because I had
my mouth washed out numerous times for words I didn't even understand
or pronounce correctly. My
mother used to wash out my mouth with Fel's Naptha Soap if I come home
and said, "Daddy, what does
(blank) mean?" In went the soap. That's what's called aversion
therapy. We have passed that on to our
children so that what comes out of their mouth is the word hopefully
of the righteous. Proverbs says,
"The lips of the righteous speak wisely...the lips of the righteous
are a fountain of life and a tree of
life...the lips of the righteous are like choice silver, they're
satisfying, they feed others, they bring
healing and deliverance. They are patient, kind, wise, truthful,
honest, pure, soft, gentle, slow to anger
and are mouth pieces for the Lord." Teach your son to watch his words.
Chapter 5 verse 2, your lips may reserve knowledge. Chapter 6 verse
12, stay away from the one
who walks with a false mouth. Chapter 10 is magnificent, look at verse
11, "The mouth of the
righteous is a fountain of life." What a great statement. Verse 13,
"On the lips of the discerning
wisdom is found." Verse 14, "The mouth of the foolish, ruin is at
hand." Quite a contrast. Verse 18, it
says, "He who conceals hatred has lying lips. He who spreads slander
is a fool." Don't do that. Don't
lie. Don't slander. That's another thing we taught our children was
never to lie. Our children, and I am
sure this is correct and Patricia and I have talked about this in
recollection, never lied in their life that
we know of more than once because the first time we caught them in a
lie there was a major
unforgetable event that took place...which event lasted long in their
memory. And it told them, in effect,
that is a very bad thing to do and attached to it is immense pain.
They seemed to get the message.
Teach your children to speak the truth.
Verse 19, "When there are many words, transgression is unavoidable."
"Teach them not to always
talk. He who restrains his lips is wise. The tongue of the righteous
is as choice silver," it just goes on
like this. Teach them to watch their words...to watch their words.
That's a major matter of wisdom.
The mouths of fools pour out endless speech, crooked speech, foolish
speech, violent speech, hateful
speech, malicious speech, strife, ruin, slander, belittlement, gossip,
disgrace, scorching fire, mischief,
perversity, on and on it says in Proverbs. Fathers, teach your
children to watch their words.
Number eight. Teach your sons..."Son, pursue your work...pursue your
work." Teach your boys
how to work, father, by word and example. Look at the ant, he says in
chapter 6, he's giving this lesson
to his son...Son, go to the ant, in verse 6 in chapter 6, and look at
this ant, observe her ways and be
wise, which having no chief officer or ruler. The first thing you want
to do is teach your children how
to work without a boss around, even an ant does that. Now your
children will work if you stand there
with a whip. But the issue is...will they if you won't? Because
they're going to have to in life. And
they also need to be taught how to plan ahead. The ant even knows to
prepare her food in the summer
anticipating the coming winter. She gathers her provision in the
harvest. Teach them to work. How
long will you lie down, O lazy son? When will you arise from your
sleep? Get your children up. And
they'll say...a little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of
the hands to rest. Sure. And your poverty
will come in like a vagabond and your need like an armed man.
You're going to make yourself poor if you don't learn how to work.
Teach them to pursue work. A
sluggard is a lazy man. He's just an ordinary man really, with too
many excuses, too many refusals, too
many postponements. According to Proverbs the lazy man will suffer
hunger, poverty, failure. Why?
Because he sleeps through the harvest. He wants but he won't work. He
loves sleep, is glued to his bed
and will follow worthless pursuits trying to get rich quick. On the
other hand, the man who pursues his
work earns a good living, has plenty of food, is rewarded for his
effort and earns respect even before
kings...it says in chapter 22 verse 29. Teach your sons to pursue
their work...so very important.
Chapter 10 verse 4, "Poor is he who works with a negligent hand but
the hand of the diligent makes
rich. He who gathers in summer is a son who acts wisely. But he who
sleeps in harvest is a son who
acts shamefully. Teach your son to work and to plan ahead in his
work."
Now, now that he's working there's a ninth lesson he needs to learn.
Here's another one...Son,
manage your money...manage your money. Go back to chapter 3 for a
moment and among these
repeated lessons is this one...and there are some basic principles
that I would draw to your attention.
Verse 9, here's principle number one with money. "Honor the Lord from
your wealth and from the first
of all your produce so your barns will be filled with plenty and your
vats will overflow with new
wine." In other words, if you are generous with God, He will be
generous with you. So honor the Lord
with your money. Teach him how to manage his money. Lesson number one
is to give from the top
from the firstfruits to the Lord, all of the money is to honor the
Lord, he's to use all his money to honor
the Lord...all of it. Teach him how to give. If you're a mediocre
giver, if you're a come see, come saw
parttime giver, that's what he'll be. And as you have forfeited the
promised blessing of God, so will he
and so you sentence your son to a life time of the kind of thing that
you've hand. If you want your son
to know the fullness of the blessing of God, and all of it poured out
on him, then teach your son how to
give God generously.
You see, what we do as fathers is simply produce the next generation.
And it either moves up or it
moves down. The positive thing...teach him to honor the Lord with all
his money, that whatever he
does with it it is to honor the Lord. Now let me flip that over,
there's a negative thing, too, chapter 6
verse 1, and this is a very good lesson and there's much more here
than initially meets the eye. Verse 1
says of chapter 6, "If you have become surety for your neighbor, have
given a pledge for a stranger."
Now listen, if you've cosigned...now the Bible says you should never
do that for a stranger. Don't
cosign for a stranger. You say...why would anybody in their right mind
co sign with a stranger? I'll tell
you, you know what it means? It means that some stranger came along
and told you if you gave him
this money or if you signed on for this debt, in the end you would
become...what?...rich. That's the
whole bottom line. In other words, if you'll just put your resources
behind my project, in the end you're
going to get rich. I mean, how many times have you heard that story?
And how much money have you
lost believing it? When a stranger comes and says...you know, just put
your money behind this...what
you have done now is you have yielded up the stewardship of your own
money to a person for whom
you cannot be accountable. So you have literally released your
Godgiven stewardship. Teach your son
not to do that. Teach your son that God has given him his resources
for him to use wisely as a steward
of God, not to become liable for another person whose behavior he
cannot control. In other words,
make very wise investments and make sure you control. Don't cosign for
a stranger so that on his
default you become liable. That's the point. Why? Because you are
given money as a steward of God
and you must use it at your discretion as the Lord leads, not have it
snatched out of your hand by the
discretion of someone else. Do you understand? Control your money to
honor the Lord and don't get
involved in getrichquick schemes that are going to put you in a
position of liability.
And if you get caught...look how he says to deal with it, verse 2...if
you've been trapped because you
made some promise with your mouth, then do this, my son, deliver
yourself, get out of it. Don't let it
linger, you get out of it. Since you've come in to the hand of your
neighbor, go humble yourself and
importune your neighbor. You know what you do? You get down on your
face and your knees, you
humble yourself and you beg and you negotiate a settlement. You do it
immediately, you get that thing
off your back so that it doesn't go on and on and on. Settle it, get
it done with, humble yourself, don't
even give sleep to your eyes, don't give slumber to your eyelids until
you get yourself out until like a
gazelle from a hunter's hand, or a bird from the hand of a fowl, or
get out of that mess, get it settled,
humble yourself, plead for mercy and do whatever you can to get out of
it so you are not continually
under the bondage of being liable for someone else's conduct. Teach
your sons that.
One final lesson. Son, love your neighbor. When we say you don't
cosign for a stranger we don't
mean you don't give money to someone in need. No. Chapter 3 verse 27,
"Do not withhold good from
those to whom it is due when it is in your power to do it." If you've
got the money, give it. If you've
got the goods, give them to the person in need. Generosity to the
poor, meeting the needs of people
around you when you have the resources is a part of honoring God.
You're to be generous in showing
sacrificial love to your neighbor. Don't say...verse 28..."Go, come
back and tomorrow I'll give it."
Don't do that, if you've got it in your pocket, give it. If you have
it, give it. Don't tell them to come
back. He has a need, you give the need. If you have it with you don't
send him away and have him
come back.
Another thing about your neighbor while you're loving him, don't
devise harm against your neighbor
when he lives in security beside you. He feels well being beside you
and you've got some plot going on
where you're going to get back at him in retaliation for something he
did, or where you're going to
confiscate the corner of his property, or you're going to do something
to cut off his water or whatever it
is. Don't do anything that is going to harm your neighbor. Don't
contend with your neighbor, verse 30,
without any reason if he's done you no harm. Don't be vengeful, is
verse 31. Don't have vengeance
toward a neighbor. Don't envy people who resolve all issues with
violence and say...Boy, I wish I
could...if I had my way I'd cut him up...don't be vengeful. Don't
choose any of the ways of violent men.
The curse of the Lord is on those kinds of people.
So, take care of your neighbor. Love him, live with him in peace.
Forgive him, meet his needs.
Those are the rules. And verse 35 says you'll inherit honor...honor.
Well, such is the duty of a father. And I close with this, listen
carefully. You have this duty as a
father and I want to lay it as clear as I can at your feet. If you
fail, father, to teach your son to fear God,
the devil will teach him to hate God. If you fail to teach your son to
guard his mind, the devil will
gladly teach him to have an open mind. If you fail to teach your son
to obey his parents, the devil will
teach him to rebel and break his parent's heart. If you fail to teach
your son to select his companions,
the devil will gladly choose them for him. If you fail to teach your
son to control his body, the devil
will teach him to give it over completely to lust. If you fail to
teach your son to enjoy the marriage
partner that God has given him, the devil will teach him to destroy
the marriage. If you fail to teach
your son to watch his words, the devil will fill his mouth with filth.
If you fail to teach your son to
pursue his work, the devil will make his laziness a tool of hell. If
you fail to teach your son to manage
his money, the devil will teach him to waste it on riotous living. And
if you fail to teach your son to
love his neighbor, the devil will gladly teach him to love only
himself. We have a great responsibility
to this generation and the next as fathers.
Lord, we thank You for our time this morning in worship and the Word.
I would pray for all here
who are fathers that we might be faithful to teach what we should
teach to our sons, to all our children,
that we might be instruments of Your grace to bring about a godly seed
in the next generation. Amen.
Available online at: http://www.gty.org/Resources/Transcripts/80-71
COPRIGHT  2007 Grace to You
You may reproduce this Grace to You content for non-commerical
purposes in accordance with Grace
to You's Copyright Policy (http://www.gty.org/MeetGTY/Copyright).
