Purpose of earth
================

My grandfather was an evangelist. I mean that as pure as it gets. I
remember being 10 years old, he would be at our house and I would come
in with a friend of mine and it wasn't 5 minutes after he has met my
friend that he would say "Tell me Tim, if a bomb were to drop on us in
the next 5 minutes and we were all killed, do you know where you would
spend eternity?" Wow...
If you were to ask my grandfather, Oscar, what the gospel was, he
would turn you to 1 Cor 15: 1 - 4 out of the (King James of course!).

> Moreover, brethren, I declare to you the gospel which I preached to
you, which also you received and in which you stand, by which also you
are saved, if you hold fast that word which I preached to
you—unless you believed in vain. For I delivered to you first of
all that which I also received: that Christ died for our sins
according to the Scriptures, and that He was buried, and that He rose
again the third day according to the Scriptures,

I always had trouble with that. If felt incomplete and didn't give me
any context for what we're doing here. "So all I have to do is believe
that?" It's true that it does say `gospel' in there.
But what's the big picture? What's the real reason all this is going
on? It took me about 10 more years to figure that one out.

While I want people to `go to heaven' I believe that life is more than
the sinners prayer and just getting someone to know 4 verses buried in
the back of a book.

I need to know the big picture before I can just accept what you're
giving me. I need to know the why and how before I can take it at face
value. My wife laughs at me that she'll tell me a crazy story about
her extended family and my first question is "who told you that?" I
need to know if I can verify the source before I accept it. It's one
of the ways I get context.

So let me start with how I understand the gospel from eternity past to
eternity future.

In God's mind one day He's thinking about an Angel. So He snaps His
finger and instantly an angel appears.
God is pleased with what He has made. So He empowers That angel is
empowered. One day one of those angels looks at the other and says
"Have you seen what we look like in the mirror?" the angel thought the
glory he possesed was his own. He thought he could be like the Most
High.
Those angels who thought they could be like God were cast out.

===
I believe you would remember that Lucifer was booted from heaven for
thinking he could be like the Most High. You would also agree that he
was not made in the image of God.

When God made man, He didn't lower the bar, He raised it and made us
in His image.
But in order to keep us from thinking we were God, He had us take a
side step from heaven to prepare us for holding His eternal glory.

Let me tell another story about Moses hanging out in Heaven for 40
days. When God said it was time to go, Moses didn't want to. God said,
"You can't stay here, but you can try to have heaven on earth if you
like" Moses thought that was acceptable alternative so he looked
around and noticed that there was no murder, or theft, or lying, or
disrespect and started taking notes.

When he came back he told the people that he had a way to live like
God in heaven. People agreed and said "we will do it!"

But after several thousand years of trying to live like heaven in all
it's righteousness, Man has discovered we're not very good at it. Of
course we can keep trying, or we can ask God if there was another
reason He suggested Moses to bring Heaven's culture to earth.

After a few thousand years of us trying to keep the rules, God finally
thought we had enough trial and error. He didn't simply tell us we had
no power, He allowed us to come to that conclusion ourselves, The
reality was truly our own that we need something (some One) bigger
than ourselves to save us.

When Christ came He accomplished 2 things. First He set us free from
our debts by His Death in our deserved place. 2nd, He showed us how
were were going to be safe for heaven by giving us a proper
perspective from the start that we are not holding God's glory because
of anything we have done, but what He has done for us. (Even when we
were sinners!)

He revealed this mystery through Paul, that man has no power in
ourself and we need to see that when we hold God's glory in
eternity, you won't be tempted to take it as Lucifer was.

This mystery is so counter intuitive to our value system and desire to
be acceptable through performance. Christians can find acceptance, not
in ourselves, but in what Christ has done in and through us. Christ
will then give us the very power to live a moral standard which is
above the law out of desire and not duty.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

I'm convinced that the more one walks with the Lord, that as the Jews
say, you become more aware of your surroundings, and the fact that God
is everywhere.
One of those is the idea of what Glory is really. I think in my
younger days I would consider it as something of a goldish-yellow glow
of brilliant light spewing out God that we can't see Him because He's
so... "Glorious".
Well, while that may be the case, I don't see much of that wattage
here on earth. So my question is, is that the only description for
glory or is it more than that.
My thought is that glory is much simpler and yet much more dynamic.
That it's anything that can cause one to marvel or stand in awe of
another.
If you consider that things that really get people's admiration fall
into a few categories: Wealth, healthy, beauty, smarts, and such.

I can testify that the more I discover God's glory in simplicity, the
more of those simple glories He allows me to possess.
In my case, I can say that God's glory in me is revealed through my
ambition, initiative, drive, creativity, growing comprehension and
capacity, and so far a deep well of ideas.

As I've identified Him as the source of these things, I believe God
considers me a safe person to rest His glory.
He is glorified, and I become more alive in the experience of it.
