April 2009
==========

4/3
What's weird is that I had a pretty good guess of what the corporate
world would be like before I entered it. It's becoming even more real
the various nuances that I couldn't have guessed unless being there.
It's pretty incredible how working in a corporate environment you do
not pick the people you work with. You will not know their
personalities and quirks very well beforehand.
I'm having trouble thinking that there are people who find my current
role a destination point.
At least at this level of the game.

I'm also finding the 3 areas of my life still to be Personal,
Repsonsibilities, & Relationships

Relationships
Danae - 70%
Oscar - 20%
Family - 7%
Friends - 3%

Responsibilities
Work
- Ouray
- AMB3R
Home
- Chores - Bills, Mail, Calendar, Manual
- Clean - Spiritual, Food, environment
- Safe -

Personal
Exercise - Swim, Weights
GMAT - Study, Tutor, Class
Quiet Time - Journal, Read

We finally got a renter in 904 Jones. $999 a month, $83 less than our
mortgage but it will work! Lord willing she will stick around for the
long haul and we can recoop our costs down the road.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

4/6

We finally setup our office in an effective way. I'm sitting at the
spot and I can't tell you how good it feels to have a designated,
clean, and organized spot with a good light!
Not only that, I got up at 4:30 this morning to swim for the first
time in 3 months. I was only able to do 6 laps but I felt great.

My prayer is to get back to the mornings with the Lord, Exercise, and
GMAT prep. I am hoping to start with a tutor and really knock this
baby out of the park. Lord, it feels like this test is standing in
front of me and these opportunities. What a silly test, but this is
the way the game is played. I call upon Your Mercy. I call upon Your
ability to let the material come this third time around... That my one
on one time with a tutor would also help huge.

Lord I want to pour out myself. May I exchange my death for your Life.
There is no problem or issue of which You are not King and Lord
Supreme. There is no place on Earth where You are not known and on the
throne of power. I believe I am here to know You. I am here for the
revelation of Jesus Christ in and through me. I am not home, and this
place will never be so. The sensations of abundant blessings on my
life, the release from the wilderness, I still have the taste of dust
in my mouth, which makes this moment taste so sweet. The few things
you have permitted us to have, Lord a job is not the Answer. Money and
riches are not the answer - which is why I am still moving up and on.
I find that you have kept a hedge of blessing and protection around me
when others have fallen. I don't want to squander that, but I see it
as a calling to continue to move forward. May I hear from you `Yes'.
"I love you" "then I say It shall be." Lord, I want to walk in wisdom
and truth and righteousness. This world hold so many attacks and
traps.

Looking back - I tried to make it to Colorado twice before the third
time success. First with Colorado Christian, Second with Shawn Mahan.
It was this final time that it happened. I wonder if the same will be
with the GMAT.

It took me 31 years to come to this point. I'm still trying to get a
hold on several things - including my beliefs about what I am to do in
this season of life. I know my identity is in Christ and that He is
the One that is in control. I think that... I'm wondering how I relate
to the Church which is His body. Is it okay to become less and less
interested in the 501(c)3 and to continue finding, communing, and
serving the true Church?

What are messages I want to discuss, write, and talk, and think about?

Home -
Work -
Personal -
Spiritual -
Politics -
-

4/10

My total compensation from Ouray is $104,000. In December of 2007, I
asked the question if I'd be able to make 100k in 2008. While I didn't
get it in that specific year, I achieved that 3 months later. Such a
weird feeling to see that come to fruition.
The Lord is good and this world is not my home. My prayer is that at
Ouray, during this season, I would experience the fullness of Christ
and know that He is God even as a big fish in a small pond.

I'm in my third day of waking at 4:30. I feel like I'm still digging
through an old shoe box by having the time to sit here. It's kind of a
decompressing/ADD sensation. I'm all over the map with things to check
on the web, wondering what books to read, and what thoughts to have.
I am excited to get back into the Word and Prayer. Just to hear from
the Lord and continue to see the goodness of God in good and bad
times. This is supposedly one of the worst economies right now and yet
I was offered more than triple what I had as a base from Futura.

I realized earlier this week that I shouldn't think that I'm getting
up at 4:30 to go workout or study, but I'm getting up this early to go
to Harvard. It puts a sense of excitement and purpose into the daily
grind.

I'm having trouble really expressing these thoughts I'm having and
feelings about this whole concept of earth. It is a really hard and
painful place to live with so many oppositions and enemies and yet the
Lord has indeed held us secure to give the earth a sort of polish and
pleasure I feel only a fraction of the world see. The other reality is
that I have no power to change this. Even as president of the US I
would still reach and affect only a handful of the world's population.
Lord, I lay down my life and surrender it to You. If this is the path
You have called us to, then it will stand. If not, AMEN. For You alone
are King and this is Your Earth. No man can shake what You have called
secure.

LOrd may I not be intoxicated by the emptiness of the world.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

4/16

I am starting GMAT again in 2 days. This time it's with a tutor and
retaking the class.
I have this weird thing about the bible - when it's been a while since
I've been in it, I think that I won't be able to understand it or hear
the Spirit speak.

I can't tell if I've fallen off the deep end, but the changes around
me have me bitter at many of the things that were in my life while I
was in the wilderness. I guess for some reason I'm thinking of people
and ideas that seemed to have the answer, but looking back were really
just empty voices sedating me from action and reality... At least
that's how I feel.

> "But that no man is justified by the law in the sight of God, it is
evident: for, The just shall live by faith. And the law is not of
faith: but, The man that doeth them shall live in them." Gal 3:11&12.

If I really allow myself to be present in the idea of these verses, I
can see how this would send me on many thoughts and a few hours of
writing, thinking and prayer.

Lord, meet me new. Meet me today. Jesus is IT. There is nothing more.
This season is new, and I want to experience You new. I hold this life
as Yours. I am death, I am destruction. I have no life but what You
give. I have no love but what You give. And You freely give it to all
those who ask. I ask. I invite You in. I invite you into rooms where I
am dark and defending. I want Jesus Christ to be revealed in all of
who I am. For this life in all it's trials and tribulations is
temporary. My heart goes to Danae and I pray you permit it and us to
grow deeper and closer.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

4/19

> The kings of the earth set themselves, and the rulers take counsel
together, against the LORD, and against his anointed, saying, Let us
break their bands asunder, and cast away their cords from us. He that
sitteth in the heavens shall laugh: the LORD shall have them in
derision. Psalm 2: 2-4

I've been thinking a lot about life, and this idea of living here, on
earth for a temporary moment. I am just so honored to be in the place
where I am. Both from things I didn't chose and the things I have.
Both of which are directly from the Lord. I just see how fragile life
is and any kind of traction is a real blessing of the Lord.

I want to bring in the previous season's lessons into this next
season. I'm curious what sticks and what falls apart. Regardless, I
believe the Lord is still in control. There is no safety in man. There
is no certainty in jobs. All could be lost.

I'm wondering what kind of impact I can have to those who are not in
the position I am in. Lord, I pray for all the factory workers. How
can I help them? How can I serve and love them? Let Christ rule my
heart, mind, and soul. Let the Lord be glorified.

Lord, I pray as I get back into studying the scriptures, You would
reveal truth and knowledge. I pray for my logic and understanding
about life and the GMAT. I continue to pray for our Home that You
would build us on a rock of equity, saftey, and servitude. I pray for
AMB3R that You would bless us with sales, equity, efficiency,
effectiveness, and growth. That we would work unto Your Glory and
honor. Our hearts go out to people who are in bondage. We have no
power but what You choose to empower us with. I pray for my season at
Ouray. That I would learn and live unto the Glory of Jesus. I pray
that I may die to my self and be offended until I can't be offended
again by Danae. That I may server her unconditionally regardless of
how she treats me. That I may see that she does have a heart of gold
and I need not worry. For You are in control. You are God. Praise You.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

4/20

Random Thoughts:
- How to best manage my time.
- Who to involve for AMB3R
- How to best manage the AMB3R finances
- How to best manage our Home Finances.

What if Raising a baby is in fact the hardest job possible. What would
that mean for everything else? That would mean that I could/should
find the time to manage mail, clean the house, cook, shop, manage the
finances, work, and help with the baby when I get home.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

4/28

I feel like we're starting to get our home management in order. We got
danae an ipod touch that has the ability for a check register and
other helpful tools. I not sure if that's the key or what but it's
promising. I have been trying as long as I've known her, to instill in
her this understanding of only spending within her limit.

It's wild how the Lord has provided this work in such a harsh time of
our economy. Without this job, these medical bills would have surely
taken over. We have little margin beyond what we're spending for
bills.

I don't have as much time to journal as I did. But I want to keep a
connection with time with the Lord.

I am still working toward retaking the GMAT. I am actually looking
forward to it. I am starting with a tutor tomorrow. Lord, is this the
way in which I should go?

When I think of the way the Lord leads, I stand in awe. He knows the
timing, needs, plans, and more of what I need. He holds all things
perfectly. God is perfectly in control. He made a place for us to know
him. The earth is truly a magnificent creation! The Lord holds all
things together.

> "Thou has put gladness in my heart, more than in the time their corn
and their wine increased." Psalm 4:7

Lord my prayer is that I would be fully present in this season. I love
these activities and work, but I am not ready to settle. I also do not
believe the place that I am in is stable in any way. Both from a
standpoint that my job requires lean and mean. THey only want me as
long as they can't get these services cheaper. Second, because this is
not my home and these things are temporary that we are building
anyway. I pray for the clarity, capacity, and perspective of Jesus
Christ. My heart goes out to the people in the warehouse. I want to
respond. I want Christ to be the center of my life.

It's weird how the fears of my youth are not as strong as they used to
be. Fears of government, vehicle maintenance, and purpose in life.
These random fears that would consume my thoughts. But now I find that
my hearts desire is to know the Lord and care for my family. I want
them to be happy and safe. I want them to know they are loved and to
love me.

Danae and I had a conversation over the weekend how in Nashville we
wanted friends and activities. We wanted to be in a social crowd,
small group, and have a good job and more. When we moved to Denver we
had all kinds of things going on and now I don't want the social part
as much. Or I should say that I want it, but in context. I don't want
it as a large part of my life, but now my tastes and interests have
changed that I am focused on taking advantage of this time to work,
study, spend quality time with Danae, and build a business.

> "Who knowing the judgement of God, that they which commit such
things are worthy of death, not only do the same, but have pleasure in
them that do them." Romans 1:32

Is it possible that there's an insight into a universal aspect of the
human makeup here? That if you stay at something long enough, you will
grow to embrace it. It will shape you and create in you an adaptation
and acceptance of that activity in your life. Is it possible I could
turn this concept for good? Is it possible that I could actually find
pleasure in studying and taking the GMAT? Is it possible that I can
fall in love with waking up at 4:30am everyday?
