December 2007
=============

12/10
In my ambition to be effective w/ time and communication, My Life is
graduating to 3.0. It all fades away. I'm going to try to simply use
backpack and my written day planner to record and thereby implement my
thoughts.
Hopefully this new format of time and information management will be a
success.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

12/13

4 years ago today I married Danae.
I can say it's been quite an adventurous ride already!
Living in CA by the Beach, moving to Nashville, and all the lessons in
between.
My prayer is that the Lord has been using our time of closeness to
build a solid foundation. We have had no choice but to be one
another's best friend. It's paid off huge dividends to have few
relational distractions.

She's sick as can be being 7 weeks pregnant now, so I'm not sure what
we'll do to celebrate...

----------------------------------------------------------------------

12/20

Danae is sick with pregnancy and is very needy. She can't really do
much as far as cleaning, cooking, and she needs me to fetch her food
and other little things.
It comes all throughout the day and night.
Why I'm writing about it is b/c I don't like that inside, I'm so
selfish, that I do these things for her with a begrudging heart. I am
so wrapped up in my own work, book, world that it feels more of an
inconvenience than anything.

I don't like that I don't like to serve.

Last night I gave up on my teeth. I can't think about them anymore. I
and the Lord both know what I need and want. I have submitted the
costs and timing to Him. If He wants me to have fixed teeth then He'll
make it happen.

I'm wondering if buying out futureshirts would be something I should
look into after school. Depending on how business is going and if the
situation looks opportunistic I may consider it.
I still want to go to school though. I want to set roots in Denver and
I want to learn / expand my horizons. I also am looking at it as a
setup for the future.
Or maybe I start AMB*R design studio while in college... we'll do
design and any apparel that won't fit the futureshirts budget.

>_Because thou hast made the LORD, who is my refuge, even the Most
High, thy habitation_ Psalm 91:9

How can I remain in You? Is this acceptance that I am in You?

If I were to be able to describe myself internally and openly without
reserve, I would say that I've always noticed inside that I had
something of an awareness and confidence that I knew more and could
handle a situation better than the average person. However, I also
found the topic to be fuzzy around the edges thereby making it
difficult to attain and live out.
I think I've been quietly competing with my fellow man. Keeping the
competition close to myself so that he will let his guard down.
I want to pray about that for a little while. Is this aspect of my
soul a virtue or residue from being a fallen man?

>_Because he hath set his love upon Me, therefore will I deliver him;
I will set him on high, because he hath known My name._ Psalm 91:14

While it's common knowledge that we learn through life, I don't think
we fully realize that learning steps beyond education. Learning tends
to be reserved for academic type subjects. But God has us on earth to
learn some bigger and deeper truths. Including:

  * His Unending Love
  * His devotion and vast plan for me here and in eternity
  * As He has purified us eternally, He is making that a reality on
    this earth as well

----------------------------------------------------------------------

12/21

>_The LORD reigneth; He is clothed with majesty. The LORD is clothed
with strength, wherewith He hath girded Himself. The world also is
established, that it cannot be moved._ Psalm 93:1

When I think of the mentality of how I should live under this
understanding. I feel as though there is nothing more for God to
prove. He doesn't need to show Himself worthy, for He already has. He
alone built and holds this world together.
How then should I live? I am not God, and I am only alive for as long
as His purposes desire.

My Theology states that I have been set free by Christ's Life. That He
is alive and well, holding me and this universe together. The chains
of sin, shame, and foolishness have been dropped and I have been set
free. So what does free mean? Free to do what I want?

What if I want to be a successful business man with several successful
companies that I run and own? What if I want my net worth to be about
$250 Million? Am I free to want that? For to me, it's not a question
of if I can attain it or not. I can't. I have no idea how I would
start with substantial sales. But God does.
I am not sure where these deep driven desires are coming from. I have
spent most of every morning for the last 7 - 10 years searching for
You and Your Wisdom. As I have been feeding my soul with the word,
prayer, and journaling I find You have been revealing growing these
interests, not letting them fade.

I have surrendered my life in all my understanding of what that means.
However, I don't see much more I can do in this `lane'. I feel I have
the brain capacity to move at a faster pace than my peers so That has
me considering that this is the way you have for me.

What if these success books are true. That I can have anything in life
I want if I help out enough people get what they want.

Part of me wonders why would we sing these songs and say these
inspiring lines if there was nothing we should do about it.
I believe the number one issue here is that You are glorified for it
is Truly You that is moving, connecting, protecting, and opening all
these opportunities.
I want to experience the beauties of life including sights, tastes,
smells, accomplishments, influence, adventure, freedom, and happiness.
I want to contribute to this world

----------------------------------------------------------------------

12/23

We left Friday evening, 2 days ago, to head to FL. The place was to
stop in Cumming for the evening to stay with my parents, then get on
the road early yesterday.
From the time we pulled out of the driveway all the way to south of
Atlanta danae was throwing up. We ended up having to turn around.

I'm not entirely sure we're going to head to FL. Although I would like
to go, we'll see if Danae can handle it...

It's looking like I will have acquired all the necessary tools for
time management, goal pursuits, and financial management. Thereby
setting 2008 to be a potentially strong year.

Figuring out my tools and how they all finally sync, I feel like I've
finally become integrated. Now what I want to do is put these tools,
insight, and disciplines to work.

If I were to think of `worldly blessings' I would consider that I am
one of the most blessed and potential to hold some significant
influence in a vain world. Being that I am a white, male, athletic,
tall, good looking, educated, American.
Lord, I feel a tremendous sense of responsibility to use these natural
glories and gifts unto Your glory. Watching the movie Two weeks notice
last night how this girl went from a high profile job into the poor
legal aid section of the town to help out the less fortunate. While
I'm not opposed to taking on the form of a servant, I want to do it
the way you called me, not simply to get out of an influencial
position b/c I feel bad. That would feel like me wishing to be born
somewhere else or as another race. Those are not the choices I was
given. As I was born this way, I am asking God how may I serve Him to
the full stewardship of His desire for my life.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

12/27

Setting all these new goals and ambitions requires courage and faith.
I'm curious though as i start to get to the nitty gritty of the
details how much trust I can have in order to remove the nervousness i
have.
For example, while we don't have much money and the home isn't
resolved, that I would put the $500 deposit down at DU in order to
show that we're serious...

I'm excited about life. I am excited about all the challenges and
opportunities it presents. I'm seeing more and more how people are
lost in their own confusion and complacency.
I am asking that the Lord would open my eyes and give me the right
questions to ask; The communication to convey them; and the
comprehension & capacity to grasp what it is He's revealing.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

12/29

While in Naples for christmas, Shawn Mahan came over and we spent the
day together. First time in 3 years seeing one another.
We caught up about several deep topics and then began to get into AB.
I heard his passion about the topic, but as I began to dig deep about
the issues, authority, vision, and resources, it became pretty clear
from my perspective that he had a mess on his hands. With 3 different
leaders, and 5 different departments all calling themselves AB made
the whole topic that much more confusing.

On top of that, for the first time I realized that I'm no so sure I
see that ministry mentality anymore. While I see that activities are
cleaver and help draw a crowd, I don't know if I like the menality
that those things are essential. It's weird. I'm finding that I would
want to gather, but for Christ, His life, and revealing Him. If the
activities were brought in for "balance" and refreshment, then I
agree. But not as a vital tool for people to hear the gospel.

It may sound like I'm splitting hairs, but it's the heart that
matters. I will be sensitive in passing judgement, so much so that I'm
going to still progress forward with Shawn if he still finds passion
and desire to move fwd.
