March 2009
==========

3/1

I feel there is so much to write about but I don't know where to
start. I miss this quite time. This school quarter has been non-stop.
Two weeks left; I need a break! The school/study/group load has been
more than I am comfortable with in trying to balance all other things.
Oscar is 7 months old and we are loving his development and being with
him.
I have informally accepted a Job offer with Ouray Sportswear to starts
as a Director of Creative Services. The total year compensation is
around $92,000. I'm pretty much still in shock as to what that means.

I keep laughing with Danae about the responses we get from the few
people we've been telling like my parents, steve, and a few of Danae's
close friends. They are shocked that I would actually get a job! As
in, one that really pays. They seem to be so surprised that all these
years of hard work would not eventually pay off.

The thing I can't shake though is the desire to try for Harvard. I've
been playing around with a 3 year plan where we stay here for two more
years to; Get experience at Ouray, Really study for the GMAT the next
6 months, then finish the DU Masters program before moving for Summer
2011. This desire is still this concept of stewardship. I must confess
that I'm taking inventory of what's happened this far in life and how
the Lord has protected and led through lean and uncertain times.

I want to be careful that we don't lose sight of the temporary nature
of this life and the purpose of it.

We didn't pay 904 Jones last month. I'm hoping to get to it this
month. I have to release it. I dropped the rental price to $975. Lord
willing that will help for the year...

I'm missing two things right now. Quiet time and Exercise time. I miss
my mornings of prayer, meditation, and study of the word. Part of the
problem, I feel, has been the pace of life. The other is finding a
proper spot to sit uninterrupted.

The other is swimming and weights. I can feel the lack of energy I
have from not pushing my physical body. I need to pick up a swimsuit
and new workout clothes. Hopefully that can all happen this month.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

3/3

I informally agreed to the Ouray position. However, I am also
researching what it would take to take 2 qtrs off of DU in order to
study for the GMAT.

I don't think I've had the time to realize that I have obtained the
thing I've been looking for over the last 6 years or so; A job in the
apparel industry. And this seems to be such an incredible opportunity
where these Private Equity guys Jon (of course) and Ryan are handing
me the keys to the creative department and letting me run the show. I
have to wonder, what do I really know but it appears that I know
enough. The total starting package is $92,000 + benefits. Wow...

Yesterday marks 7 years ago to the day of a journey. On march 3/2/2 I
read Psalm 116 and was excited to take the merch job with Rick Denim
and lead me through touring, Futura, and Nashville. On 3/2/2 I marked
that Psalm as my prayer that the Lord had delivered me. Had It took me
seven years to realize that was a dead end road.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

3/15

It's not right for me to go this long without writing. I need to write
to think, pray, and just get some time to write it out.
So I'm in Annaheim, CA for a tradeshow with Ouray. I flew in yesterday
and had a good chat with Jon Boris.
It's going to be interesting how we can turn a B or C player into an A
player in the College market. There are so many people offering the
same thing and copying the same people for ideas - Abercrombie,
Quiksilver, etc.

I'm going to be interested to see how this all works out.

I'm taking the Spring and Summer quarters off to focus on Ouray,
AMB3R, and retake the GMAT.

There's a difference in the walls that I encounter, which ones are
there as part of my life, and which ones are to be climbed. Last week
I realized that Danae doesn't like to be home alone for one night.
Since I'm here in CA, I needed to fly someone out to stay with her to
keep her company.

When I hear Jon tell about his life story of going to Villa Nova,
working on the Bond Market, then going to business school, there is an
admiration and I have to be careful not to wish for that life. Jon is
going to have to stand accountable for what he has done and is doing
with the life he's been given.

Globalization and capitalism have been weighing on me lately. What is
going on with the world, our country, and what I should do about it. I
am met with a conflicting thoughts that while this is the greatest
county, it also appears that we're making some careless decisions. I
want to think of enjoying it while it lasts, but know that this world
and it's systsms are temporary and not guaranteed.

I am powerless regardless of systems or not. Jesus is King and this
place is meant for us to know that He is Lord.
-

3/27

Still no sign of a renter or buyer for our house. I lowered the rent
from $1,200 all the way down to $999. Lord, what should we do about
that other than trust You? Should we pay the back mortgage payments?
Is that what I should do to honor the contract?

My current life's mission is to experience the fullness of Christ. I
am my first full week into this new job and I was expecting a full
frontal attack for the revelation of Christ in me. I'm finding though
that it may be in the area of my home, where it's already been
strained before.

Danae wants me to be more relational and I confess that I'm not how
she wants me to be.

Danae
1. Me
2. Oscar
3.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

3/30

I'm still in shock that life is in fact changing toward what I have
aimed for over the last 9 years. The crazy thing is that the role that
I'm doing now is a dream job for most people, including me at one
point. But here I am doing it, and loving it, but trying not to get
comfortable.
As an art director, I'm learning everything about overseas,
production, artist management, marketing, catalog design.
To top it off, I am making some great money doing it. Bless the LORD.

I'm still trying to adjust to my new schedule as a parent, employee,
husband, and still aiming for GMAT. I need to write an email to the
fam explaining so.

One of the other things I'm realizing is in this concept of
re-invention, I'm discovering that my values are changing as well. I
am finding little motivation to unplug from the momentum going right
now and snowboard, mountain bike, and simply play for play sake.

Lord, I am here. How may I hear.

I think I'm going to start the psalms in this season of life. I want
to discover pieces I don't know and review the notes I've been writing
over the years...
