Module 5
========

Social Capital Overview

Trust, productive relationships, and common norms matter to the
successful functioning of societies, organizations, and individuals.
This forms the core notion behind the concept of "social capital."

The dictionary defines "capital" as "wealth in any form employed in or
available for the production of more wealth."
We can distinguish several forms of capital:
1) Physical capital -- physical tools or items that increase
productivity (e.g. a computer)
2) Human capital – the knowledge and skills the improve
productivity (e.g. the knowledge resulting from an MBA curriculum)
3) Financial capital – accumulated money that enhances
opportunities (e.g. loans or savings to begin a new start-up business)
4) Social capital – the stock of social trust, networks, norms,
and generally the common interconnectedness that enable communities to
deal more effectively with common problems and issues (e.g. a quick
response of volunteers to assist victims of a flood disaster).

                      Hobbes and Social Contract

Facts of Nature
1) Equality of Need
2) Scarcity
3) Equality of Power
4) Limited Altruism

Hobbes argues essentially that there are two alternatives: cooperation
or competition. By competition here he means every individual is on
his own.

Interesting that we are taught the theory of evolution as fact and
survival of the fittest, but then you tell us here that we should be
cooperating instead of competing.

Hobbes argues that a rational person would not choose competition if
there were a better alternative. Indeed, rationality leads humans to a
strategy of cooperation or social contract. We can avoid the
consequences of competition and a state of nature (such as chaos and
anarchy) by entering into a social contract. Self-interest and
rationality, then, lead us to an agreed upon social contract.

But you've just taught us since elementary school survival of the
fittest, why should I consider another methodology?

                   How to Invest in Social Capital

Wrong for two reasons. First, social capital is under assault in most
organizations today because of rising volatility and over reliance on
virtuality. More simply put, social capital is under assault because
building relationships in turbulent times is tough—and tougher
still with many people working off-site or on their own. Second,
social capital is under assault because few managers know how to
invest in it. Knowing that healthy relationships help an organization
thrive is one thing; making those relationships happen is quite
another.

Former U.S. Secretary of Labor Robert B. Reich has spoken of a simple
test he relies on when visiting a company for the first time: "I call
it the `pronoun test," he says. "I ask frontline workers a few general
questions about the company. If the answers I get back describe the
company in terms like `they' and `them,' then I know it's one kind of
company. If the answers are put in terms like `we' or `us; then I know
it's a different kind of company."

Appendix B: Capital Offenses
Companies thrive when they have dense social networks, high levels of
trust, and norms of cooperation. But management theory and practice
are full of ways to undercut them. Here are some of the biggest
social-capital destroyers we've seen:
Hoteling.

Reengineering and Its Progeny. Reengineering, regardless of its
original intent, evolved into a practice that valued efficient
processes at any cost, and the idolatry of process efficiency is still
with us.

The Leader As Superstar.

Hypocrisy. Hypocrisy is an obvious problem.

           The Prisoner Dilemma - (confess if it's my idea)

"You may confess or remain silent. If you confess and your accomplice
remains silent, you will go free and you accomplice will serve 5
years. Likewise, if your accomplice confesses and you remain silent,
you will serve 5 years and your accomplice will go free. If you both
confess, you will each get 3 years of time in prison. If you both
remain silent, you will each have to serve 1 year."

So, a few key points about prisoner dilemma problems are the
following:
1) Making minimalist assumptions about human beings (self-interest and
rationality), a cooperative strategy is better for self-interest and
personal benefit.
2) The paradox is that is worse off doing what is thought to be in
one's self-interest. The corollary is that one is better off doing
what is not in one's perceived self-interest.
3) Morality can be thought of these cooperative strategies or rules of
social cooperation.

          Soldier problem - (stay and fight or let him run)

Consider the following situation: Two soldiers, Doris and Dan, are
protecting two nearby strong posts in an attempt to hold up an enemy
advance. If both remain at their posts, they have a fairly good chance
of holding off the enemy until relief arrives, and so of both
surviving. If they both run away, the enemy will break through
immediately , and the chance of either of them surviving is markedly
less.

But if one stays at his post while the other runs away, the one who
runs will have an even better chance of survival than each will have
if both remain, while the one who stays will have an even worse chance
than each will have if they both run.

Assume that these facts are known to both soldiers, and each
calculates in a thoroughly rational way with a view simply to each
soldier's own survival. Assume no communication between the soldiers.
Assume only that survival is the goal and that they are rational. Make
no other assumptions and do not use any outside knowledge or
information that you may have. Analyze the different options and
determine the best course of action.

                        Tragedy of the commons

We are familiar with material commons - grazing lands, fisheries and
forests. And we know that a system which incentivizes each farmer or
fisherman to take more than their share leads to the collapse of the
system for everybody. But we often forget that the economy is a
commons. And what allows it to work is not something private, but
something we all share. That thing we all have `in common' with each
other is our faith in the system.

The reason it's a Tragedy of the Commons is the players knew it, but
they couldn't stop it. Each of them is acting rationally in their own
best interests, and yet by doing so, they all fail together. No
individual investor, developer, mortgage lender, or insurance agent is
big enough to change the entire economic system, so everybody is
incentivized to get what they can while the getting is good.

this is what you get when man is left to live without God... Why are
we surprised?

                  The Prisoner's Dilemma in Business

As a new employee, you may not be productive for me for a period of
anywhere from a month to two years while you learn your trade. (The
entry level salespeople my company hires out of college take almost
two years before they begin repaying our investment in them, as they
have a lot to learn about technology, the industry and sales
techniques first.) If you leave after I train you but before you begin
producing for me, you have a set of tools with which to go out and
make money elsewhere and I have received the sucker's payoff.

                      Revenge of the Freeloaders

Such a readiness to retaliate, researchers said, reflected relatively
lower levels of trust, civic cooperation and the rule of law as
measured by social scientists in the World Values Survey, which
periodically assesses basic values and beliefs in more than 80
societies. In countries with democratic market economies, peer
pressure goaded people to cooperate. Among authoritarian societies or
those dominated more by ties of kinship, freeloaders instead lashed
out at those who censured them, the researchers found.

But social appearances and the good opinion of others do regulate our
behavior. In the only other major cross-cultural study of this sort,
Dr. Gintis and his colleagues several years ago examined 15 primitive
societies of farmers, foragers, hunters and nomads in 12 countries,
not unlike those in which humanity might have first evolved. The
researchers found that these people all cared as much about fairness
as the economic outcome of a trade. "They care about the ethical value
of what they do," said Dr. Gintis.
