November 2008
=============

11/3

This GMAT is kicking my butt! I can't believe how challenging this
test can be. I am planning to take it in a month. I feel that's not
enough time.

I was encouraged by Psalm 18:

He sent from above, he took me, he drew me out of many waters. v.16
It is God that girdeth me with strength, and maketh my way perfect.
V.32
He teacheth my hands to war, so that a bow of steel is broken by mine
arms. V.34

Lord, I want to remain faithful to Your calling on my life. My heart
aches to see the wickedness gain any ground. You alone are the life,
light, and strength of all mankind.

May I be Your vessel unto glory. It is You who fight for me. It is You
that gives me strength. It is You who will set me on a rock.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

11/8

I met with a NWML rep yesterday and part of his interview of me for
insurance was asking my goals and plans. I told him I had a 50 year
plan and the key word that held that together was Stewardship.
I want to experience the fullness of Christ for Him to be formed in me
through all circumstances and seasons. He is the source and cause of
life and He has the plans for us.

I do not know where the Lord is leading with these other schools, but
my prayer is that He is the One who is doing so. I am going by faith
that this GMAT and school prep is not in vain. That this road trip and
all the extra costs are not for naught.

I pray that these are adult decisions. I absolutely love Denver and I
bless the LORD for allowing us a season here.

I suppose I should consider again that the application is not what
will get me into the school. It is the Will of the Father that accepts
or denies. My petition is before the Lord, not the School Board.

"My Soul followeth hard after Thee: Thy right hand upholdeth me." Ps
63:8

Lord Jesus, where You lead is where we will go. Bless our willingness
and work. Have mercy on our time, romance, marriage, finances,
business, and schedule. You alone lead and guide. We are Your children
and You are our Father.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

11/10
Time is just flying by. 2008 will go down as an incredible year for
me. Having Oscar, Starting my own business, starting Grad school, and
Living in Denver. Bless the Lord.

Reading Psalm 73, I am seeing how the wealthy have a new set of
challenges in life. They do not hold the same troubles as "other" men,
but have no doubt challenges. For wealth produces a false sense of
security and man is spoiled when he is deceived to believe he lacks.
Pride sets in and leads to a violent spirit.

"But it is good for me to draw near to God: I have put my trust in the
LORD GOD, that I may declare all Thy works." Ps 73:28. - I think about
my philosophies with this one. I feel I am more than willing to share
the Lord when I know these people. I don't feel that I have the
outspoken message when people are unaware of me or what I'm about to
say. Is that accurate? Lord, I am Yours.
-

11/19
I had my last final yesterday. First Quarter of Grad School is done! I
feel good about it and believe the Lord indeed led us here.
I have no obligations for the next 2.5 weeks as I prepare for the
GMAT. I am planning to take it 12/5.
My prayer is that the Lord has mercy on my studies and leads me unto
clarity, insight, and how to score high on this test.

My life is in His hands...

----------------------------------------------------------------------

11/21

Ever since I can remember I have had a desire to teach others what I
have learned of the Lord through time. To show them the path that I
walked so that they may walk it. A few years ago I came to the
conclusion that it's not really possible to create a `curriculum' for
people to follow. I basically left it at that.

This morning I was thinking about looking at it from a different role
relationship. Moving from Teacher/Student to Leader/Follower role.
What if the Lord has designed it that a follower can benefit from my
life whether or not he wants to learn.

I can give my life to servant leadership, mentor, love, and care for
those people in life who are not able to teach or lead.

I am also praying about the poor and how I might serve them...
-

11/26

Wow... late night journal entry. I can't remember the last time I did
this. I have to confess I'm pretty nervous about this GMAT. I take it
a week from Friday (9 days!) I can't seem to make much progress and I
am nervous I won't get beyond even a 600.

I'm also stressed about finances. We have $200 in the bank and I feel
Danae and I are on a continual slide into debt.

Lord, I am tired and worried. I need You and Your Mercy to shine upon
us. Lord, In Your eternal grace, may I be granted acceptance to one of
these schools.

Would You also place your mercy on this application process. I need
You.
