September 2008
==============

9/11
Being that my first journal entry is 9/11, that should tell you
something about my schedule. I am loving it, but it is pretty jam
packed.
I'm in my first official week of class in Grad School. I am humbled
and thankful. I am loving it.
The Lord is ever faithful and my prayer is to walk in His ways unto
the revelation and Glory of Jesus.

I went to a Chicago Grad School meeting that came through Denver on
Monday. They are top ranked even though I wasn't familiar, the rest of
the world is. They look like a top notch program there!

AMB3R is still moving forward and I hold that loosely.

Oscar is 6 weeks old now and we are loving this new stage of life.
While it's tiring, it's absoltly worth it.

I find my love for Danae Grow in this time too. I want her to know
that and I want to server and cherish her.
-
9/15

Lehman Brother's is filing for bankruptcy today. They are over 150
years old and the 4th largest investment bank in our country. I have
two thoughts about it; First, I have no idea how all that works and
I'm curious. Second, My mind goes to America, it's challenges, and my
future. I just wonder what is going on with our country, and if it's
like the movie Men In Black where there is always something going on
that I don't know about that could destroy the planet.

Reading Romans 8 this morning about the Spirit dwelling inside, the
tradeoff between this current sufferings and the world to come, and
that all things are working together for the good. What a great
passage that the One who condemns is also the One who saved us. He
would not discount His own sacrifice.

I trust that times like these when the facade is pulled back that
people are ready to hear the truth of significance.

I spent the weekend preparing for my GMAT. I am researching what kind
of prep course to take, schedules, and even planning a road trip of
the schools I would want to visit.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

9/22

Let me not be so foolish as to believe that just because I have an
idea of what it means for Christ to be my Life, hope, glory, stregth,
purpose, ... everything - That I would have attained unto maturity.
Lord, I am still a babe in You. I have not the slightest insight as to
the Power and Ability You posses. My fears and flesh hold me back.

"Lord, what is man, that Thou takest knowledge of him! Or the son of
man, that Thou makest account of him! Man is like to vanity: His days
are as a shadow that passeth away." Psalm 144:3&4.

This is my thoughts exactly. I am here but a brief moment then we are
gone. I want to experience the fullness of Christ for as long as You
have me here. Let me hear Your voice. Draw me near to You day by day.
I am void without You.

My definition of significance has changed. Impact is not the end
result, but stewardship to what You empower with me specifically.
